Sunny Savita: Hey, hello everyone, I'm Audible.
Sunny Savita: Can you please confirm in the chat if you can hear me?
Sunny Savita: So, let's begin with the session. Good evening to all of you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, good evening, guys. Good evening.
Sunny Savita: Let's begin with the session.
Sunny Savita: My voice is clear.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Can you see my Zoom screen? Is it visible to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Great guys, perfect.
Sunny Savita: So let's begin, let's start.
Sunny Savita: And I hope I am visible also.
Sunny Savita: Sound is low, is it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I'm doing good.
Sunny Savita: Sir, are we starting SOTA and Transformer today? Yes. So, first, I will show you the custom training. I think it is a very small code, and after that, we'll start that only, okay?
Sunny Savita: All perfect? Fine. Thank you, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, let's start with a class, let's start with a session.
Sunny Savita: Let's do one thing, guys. First, revise the previous concepts, whatever we have learned in the previous class.
Sunny Savita: And then, and guys, then, basically what we'll do, then we'll go for the practical, okay? And we'll start with the new topic as well.
Sunny Savita: So, if you will go and check, with the syllabus… so, this is a syllabus, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the syllabus, the first module, it was the
Sunny Savita: The first module, basically, it was the, embedding, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see the first topic, basically, it was the embedding and the encoding.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, we'll start, this transformer, okay? So you can take a reference, of it.
Sunny Savita: So, according to the syllabus only, we'll move.
Sunny Savita: Now guys, what I will do… so first, basically, I will discuss the remaining concept, related to the word to bag, and after that only, I will move to the next topic.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So, is the idea and the agenda as clear? Can I get quick thumbs up in the chat?
Sunny Savita: How many of you, you have joined the first time? I mean, this is your first class?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, Ikta, if this is your first class, then do one thing, check out with the course dashboard. So, this is the course dashboard, okay? All the recordings… all the recordings and all everything, basically, will get over here, inside the live class section, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. Now, what I will do, first, guys, I'll give you the quick recap from the previous class, from the previous session. For that, I already prepared notes, and I hope so my screen is visible. Now, guys, let's take a quick revision, and after that, guys, what I will do, I will go for the practical.
Sunny Savita: So, everyone want the custom training of the VirtuBag, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Or should I move to the transformer model? Should I move to the OpenAI or the Google Jimmy model?
Sunny Savita: Manish is saying I'm not audible.
Sunny Savita: I think so. Moniz, there is some issue from your end. Please check.
Sunny Savita: I am audible, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, I think most of the people wanted to see the custom training. So, yeah, I can show you the custom training.
Sunny Savita: I can show you, basically, how you can train the custom word-to-back model. So first, guys, what we have to do, we have to, like, so this is the, like, all the practicals and all, which we are performing, right, on a class basis.
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to create, what I'm going to do, guys, so I'm going to be added the same name. So, yesterday I created one folder here. The folder name was the Class 6, 11, April, World 2 Back with Practical, okay? So, I'm going to edit the same folder, so let me rename this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: So, here, what I'm going to do, I'm going to write 6 and 7.
Sunny Savita: 6 and 7, and then 11 and 12th apprent, okay? So, 11th… And…
Sunny Savita: 12th April. Got it, guys? So, inside the same folder only, I will push the code, I will push the custom training code.
Sunny Savita: So inside this same folder, inside this particular folder only, I will be giving you the custom training code, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let it rename until what I can do, I can give you the quick revision, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, just a second… Let it complete.
Sunny Savita: I will create a new file inside the same folder. Got it? And even I kept the custom data also, on top of that data only, I'm going to train my model, okay? So I will provide you that data also. You can download it inside your system, okay? Inside your local system, or wherever you are performing the practical.
Sunny Savita: Sir, your voice is very low. Ayush? I don't think so.
Sunny Savita: my voice is perfect, right? Guys, please give me quick confirmation if it is perfect, right?
Sunny Savita: And please mention in the community chat also, so that people can, see over there as well.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, okay? Again, I'm going to… Open this one.
Sunny Savita: VS Code, okay? Wait.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so what I'm giving, I'm giving you the changes. It means I'm going to create one file inside this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: So the file name is going to be what? Custom Word2Back Training.
Sunny Savita: So, custom underscore what?
Sunny Savita: 2 back.
Sunny Savita: underscore.
Sunny Savita: Training, okay?
Sunny Savita: And this is going to be IPYNV file, so I will write IPYNB. Now guys, inside this file only, I'm going to be writing my further code for the custom training and all. So I'm giving you these changes, so what all changes, basically, I made?
Sunny Savita: Let me show you that. So, first thing, guys, we required this NLTK library.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this NLTK library inside the requirement.txt? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So, first thing, is the analytical library. The second thing is what, basically? The second thing is the data folder.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the data, inside this data folder, what I did, I capped this story1.txt, story2.txt. So, we are going to use this particular data to create our own word-to-back model. So, if you will open this file, here you will get the data. See, this is the first file.
Sunny Savita: And this is the second file, guys. So, this is what? This is the second file.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we are going to use this particular data to train our own custom world-to-back model.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Is it clear? If it is clear, give me a quick thumbs up, so that I can provide you these particular changes, okay?
Sunny Savita: I am pushing it over the GitHub so that you can pull inside your system.
Sunny Savita: So, git add dot, And git commit.
Sunny Savita: hyphen M.
Sunny Savita: Code updated.
Sunny Savita: Then I'll write git push.
Sunny Savita: So guys, I updated the code over the GitHub. Please check out with the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: This is the folder. The folder name is what?
Sunny Savita: The folder name is Class 6, 7, 11, 12, Apparel, word to back with a practical.
Sunny Savita: Just check out with this particular folder, you will get this data library. Sorry, you will get this data folder.
Sunny Savita: And inside this particular file, inside the custom Word2BAC training, we are going to perform the practical, and then you have to make one more changes. Inside the requirement.txt, you have to add this NLTK library also.
Sunny Savita: Got it? So I'm sharing this, link inside the chat.
Sunny Savita: And, guys, please keep this link with you.
Sunny Savita: Right? Keep it somewhere, because it is required, just bookmark this URL, or keep it somewhere so that, you can open it, before starting the session.
Sunny Savita: So I'm giving you one minute of time, you can take these changes, and you can look into these entire changes, okay? Then we'll take a quick recap of the Word2Back and all, whatever is there. And after that, guys, I will come to the practical part.
Sunny Savita: Once you got it, just give me a quick thumbs up.
Sunny Savita: Sir, if you use Google word-to-back model for embedding, then each word embedding will have 3 million dimension.
Sunny Savita: Not 3 million dimension, 300 dimension.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I will give that. Sankar, I will come to that.
Sunny Savita: Sir, low means energy is missing in today's your voice. I don't think so. I'm just going slowly, Sagar.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Harabhar Chilana Joruri nahya na, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm…
Sunny Savita: Perfect, guys. Okay, let's, start now. So, yesterday we have seen, yesterday we have gone through with over to bag, okay? So, let's take a quick revision. So, I'm asking a couple of things, so you have to answer for that.
Sunny Savita: And guys, as of now, I'm not looking into the chat, okay? So, after 20 minutes, after the 20-30 minute, after explaining the concept, I will look into the chat. So, if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me there.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if I'm not able to solve your doubt inside the chat, let's say your message is going to be missed again and again, then guys, don't worry, you can ask me the doubt in the doubt session, okay? This is the disclaimer for this entire session.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? Okay. So, as of now, I'm not looking into the chat, means I will be, explaining the concept. After 20 minutes, guys, I will, look into the chat window, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, here, guys, if you will go through with the, World 2 bag, right? So, tell me, guys, what is a type of the Virtu bag, and how many types we can categorize this Virtu bag?
Sunny Savita: And how many ways we can implement this Word2Bag? And two ways we can implement this Word2Bag.
Sunny Savita: The first is called what? The first is called CBOG.
Sunny Savita: And the second is called Skip Ground.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now guys, word to bag means what? If we're talking about the word to bag, what is the meaning of the word to bag?
Sunny Savita: The meaning of the word to back is nothing, it is a neural network modeling, or we can say it is a neural network training. Is it clear? Yes or no? I hope this thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: So yesterday, what we were trying to understand, we were, like, trying to understand, like, how this model is being trained, how the neural network is being trained, okay? So for that, guys, we… I took a very simple sentence, so this was my sentence.
Sunny Savita: Was this my sentence? Yes or no? Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: follow Sunny for the generative AI, right? So what we have to do at the first place, if I want to train my model based on this particular data, so first, basically, I will have to create a vocabulary out of this particular data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is my data, guys, and I created a vocabulary out of this data. Vocabulary is, I think it's just a unique word.
Sunny Savita: Now, what was the second step, guys? So, after this vocabulary, after the vocabulary creation, we are going to create a one-hot encoded vector.
Sunny Savita: So this is the one hot encoded vector of each and every word.
Sunny Savita: Till here, everything is fine. Are you able to revise your concept?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: I will come to the differences, okay, between the SkeepGram and the, this one. Sibo.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Okay. So, guys, still here, I hope everyone is able to revise their concept, and everyone able to understand, like, whatever we have learned in the previous class. Now, guys, coming to the next part. So, we have to prepare a data for the SIBO, right? We have to prepare a data for the training. So, here was the data, guys. So, we have… we took the window size too.
Sunny Savita: But again, guys, we can take any sort of a window size. This is what? This is a hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys?
Sunny Savita: This is hyperpara meter, guys. Okay? We can take any sort of a value of this window size. Yesterday only, I taught you that. Now, guys, this data is clear to all of you, how we have prepared this data. So, this data, basically, it's a CBO data. So, this is a context, this is a target.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so follow for Sunny, SunnyGen 4, for AIGen.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, let's suppose this is the, this is my word.
Sunny Savita: This is my word. If I'm taking window size is equal to 1, then I will consider this particular word, okay? This particular surrounding word. Same will go for this one, and same thing will go for this one, right?
Sunny Savita: Same thing will go for this one, and same thing will go for this one. So here, what I'm able to do, guys, I'm able to prepare my contacts, and I'm able to prepare my data.
Sunny Savita: Till here, everything is fine. Till here, everything is clear. Already, we have learned all this concept. Just give me quick yes or no in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. Now, after that, guys, what we will do, we'll understand how this model is being trained. So, this is the complete and the overall diagram of the model training. I hope, guys, this diagram is visible to all of you.
Sunny Savita: I hope, guys, this diagram is visible to all of you. Now, let's understand, then let's understand, the model training, okay? Let's understand the model training. So, how many layers we have? We have an input layer.
Sunny Savita: We have a hidden layer, we have what? We have a output layer over here.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So, here we are passing input. So this is my first word, this is my second word. Now, what is my first word, guys? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: My first word is going to be what? My first word is the follow.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be right over here, follow.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and then the second word is what? Second word is the 4.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, this is a one-hot encoded representation of the follow, and this is a one-hot encoded representation of the four.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Now, this input will go to this hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: This input also will go to the hidden layer. It will perform the parallel processing. What it will do, guys, it will perform the parallel processing. Means, it will do the matrix multiplication. Okay, we have an input, this is the input, and here we have a weight matrix. What is the size of the weight matrix?
Sunny Savita: The size of the weight matrix is going to be 5 cross 3.
Sunny Savita: What is the size of the weight matrix? 5 cross 3. So here, what we will do, we will do the vector and the matrix multiplication. And after all the multiplication and all, what we will get over here, we'll get the final… we will get one vector, okay? So here, after all the multiplication and all, guys, what we will be getting?
Sunny Savita: we will be getting the vector, okay, the hidden vector. Now, this hidden vector only, basically.
Sunny Savita: This will be called the embedding.
Sunny Savita: this hidden vector only, it will be called the embedding. I already taught you this particular concept, right? So how the entire training process will happen, how the entire training process will happen, so this follow will come.
Sunny Savita: This 4 will come, it will, it will interact with the weight matrices, okay? Then, guys, this, output will go, this, embedding output, this, this particular output will go to the output layer, okay? Here, also, we have our weight matrices, this 3 cross 5.
Sunny Savita: So, it will again do the metrics multiplication and the vector multiplication. Vector is going to be multiplied with the weight matrix. Then we will be getting this predicted output. So, this is the predicted output. It is a probability value. This is what? This is the probability value. And what is my expected output?
Sunny Savita: So this is my… this is my actual output. Target output. Target output is what? Target output is a sunny. This one. Target output is sunny.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is what… this is my predicted value, this is the predicted probability, and this is what… this is my actual output, right? Then what we will do, guys, we'll try to find out a loss.
Sunny Savita: Predicted, predicted, minus actual.
Sunny Savita: Predict is minus actual, okay? And the training will go on like this only. Means, first, we will perform the forward propagation.
Sunny Savita: Inside this, we will do all the calculation and all, okay? And inside the backward propagation, we'll use the optimizer, like gradient descent and the other optimizer, and we'll try to optimize this weight.
Sunny Savita: What we will do, guys, we'll try to optimize this weight, and after optimizing the weight, guys, what will be our goal? So our goal, basically, is going to be to minimize the loss.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? And our goal, basically, is going to be what? To minimize the loss, right? So this is the overall idea behind the training, guys, training of the, Word2Bag neural network model. So here I mentioned couple of more things, so let me highlight that as well. So, if we are talking about the input layer, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we're talking about the input layer. So, as many as word could be passed in parallel. As much as word, we can pass through the input layer. As of now, we are… in the context, we just have two words.
Sunny Savita: Right? In the context, we just have two words. But guys, that word could be anything. If we are going to be increase the window size, let's say we are going to be increase the window size from 225 to 210, right? Or maybe, if I'm going to be increase 20, 30,
Sunny Savita: So in that case, my context size is going to be increased, right? My word is going to be increased. I can pass as many as word in the… from the input layer. So, this is the first thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the next thing, guys? Hader layer, right? So, in the header layer, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, hidden layer would be one only. So, we are just going to be keep only one hidden layer, right? Inside the research paper also, they have mentioned the same thing, that they are going… they have mentioned only one hidden layer, right? They have mentioned only one hidden layer. But inside the hidden layer, guys, this layer, but inside this hidden layer, guys, we can have as many as neurons.
Sunny Savita: It is a hyperparameter. So, just to explain you the concept, how many neurons I capped over here, so just to explain the concept, I just capped 3 neurons, right? Over here, you can see the 3 neurons.
Sunny Savita: But it could be 30, it could be 150, it could be 100, it could be basically 500, it could be 300, it could be 350.
Sunny Savita: Whatever number it could be. Okay, now one question I'm going to ask to all of you, guys, tell me, in, Google Model, Google Model, basically, which we have used inside the previous class, what was the size of that model?
Sunny Savita: Means, what I was getting in, what dimension I was getting inside that model, I was getting 300. So maybe they kept 300 neurons over here.
Sunny Savita: So maybe they cap 300 neurons over here. Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? Okay? So this is one of the… this is, like, the complete revision of the word 2. This is the complete revision of the word 2 back with the CBO, which we have already understood in the previous class, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, I have mentioned one more thing. So, during the training.
Sunny Savita: During the training, the model updates is weighed to minimize the loss. Is it true, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: If you remember the gradient descent, okay, if you will go and check with the prerequisite, the gradient descent, basically. So what is a graph of the gradient descent? This is a graph of the gradient descent. Now, over here, guys, see, this is a loss, this is what, this is a loss, and this is what, this is the weight, guys.
Sunny Savita: Right? This is the weight. Okay, so if the loss is going to be minimum, means the weight is going to be optimized one.
Sunny Savita: If the loss is going to be minimum, okay, means the weight is going to be optimized one. So, during the training, the model update its weight.
Sunny Savita: To minimize what? To minimize the loss. And the same thing, basically, I have mentioned over here. If you will check with my diagram, right, this particular diagram, so I have mentioned the same thing. So our main aim, basically, to minimize the loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and to get a optimized weight, to get a optimized weight, so that… so that, guys, we can do the multiplier input vector with this particular weight, and we can get a best possible vector, the embedding vector over here. This is what… this is my embedding vector, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, this particular point is called the global minima. Have you heard about the global minima, this particular term?
Sunny Savita: If you ever learn the machine learning, if you ever learn, if you ever learn about the deep learning, right? So inside that, we are hearing this term, right, again and again inside the optimizer, that is called the global minimum, right? So it's the same one.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here I written one more sentence. Just read out this particular sentence. So, input to hidden weight itself becomes the word embedding.
Sunny Savita: Right? Input to hidden weights.
Sunny Savita: Okay, input to hidden weights itself are become the word embedding. What does it mean, guys? Let me clarify the sentence. Input to hidden weight, right?
Sunny Savita: We are passing input, it's going to the hidden weight. Now, after that, okay, let me complete this particular sentence. Input to hidden weight.
Sunny Savita: multiplication.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Multiplication means what? Means?
Sunny Savita: The output of… the output of…
Sunny Savita: The output of the hidden layer, Output of the… Hidden Leo.
Sunny Savita: the output of the hidden layer itself becomes the word embedding, okay? Now, this is what? This is the correct sentence.
Sunny Savita: I hope, guys, all these things are killer to all of you, right?
Sunny Savita: Sir, how we are selecting weights 5 cross 3, 3 cross 5? It is a metrics, actually. I'm showing you in the form of metrics that
Sunny Savita: Okay? 5 cross 3, 5 cross 3 means what? So, here we have 5 input. Then, how many hidden neurons we have? 3. So 5 into 3, how much weights would be there? 15 weights will be there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so in the fully connected network, we would be having 15 weights. So this is what I'm showing you. It is just a way of metrics representation. Got it, baby?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, tell me, guys, is this thing clear? Already, we have learned this entire thing in the previous class. Just give me quick confirmation so that I can go ahead with the next, so that I can go ahead with the next architecture, okay?
Sunny Savita: So is this hyperparameter, window size, is supported to optimal YouTube calculation? Yes, basically. You will have to check the output.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, like this, the entire training is happening. Now, guys, after the training, what will happen?
Sunny Savita: After the training, what will happen? So, why we are using one-hot encoding word? Because in any way, we'll have to pass the data to the model, sir, right?
Sunny Savita: How you will pass this follow for to the model.
Sunny Savita: You will convert this data into the number, and you will perform the calculation.
Sunny Savita: Right? Yes or no. So in the research paper, that Google researcher, actually, they have converted the data into the one-hot encoded vector, and then they are passing it to the model.
Sunny Savita: Got it, sir? Okay, great. Now, over here, guys, you can see, after the… after the training, what will happen? What is the next thing, right? What is the next thing? How to decide a weight? Weight, actually, it is a hyper… weight, actually, we decide randomly.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We initialize the weight randomly. For that, guys, I'm telling you, please learn about the… please learn it from the prerequisite.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Because neural network, it is out of scope, it is out of scope to this particular class, right? I'm not going to be include that inside the generative AI, because after one or two modules, even we are not going to be use all this entire thing, this is just for the basic, this is just for the interview.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I don't want to include the neural network, convolution neural network, RNN and all.
Sunny Savita: Because in generative AI, basically, once you will move to the RAG agents, fine-tuning the other LLMs and all, this concept, again, it would be not required. Means we will more focus on the practical side, on the application side. Okay? So this is all the thing I'm teaching you on the basic perspective, on the interview perspective. Getting my point? Okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, over here, guys, you can see, after the model, so let's say this is the, like, I train the model, and what's the next thing after the model, right? We'll do the prediction, means we'll get our embedding, right? So, we have trained the model.
Sunny Savita: Right? We have trained the model, we have trained the neural network.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We have trained the model, we have trained the neural network. Okay, this is our model.
Sunny Savita: This is our model. Okay, this is our model. So this is the inputs, and this is what, this is the hidden one, and this is the output one.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we will pass a word, so let's say we wanted to convert, word will come, which we wanted to convert into the vector. Means, whenever we will pass any word, whenever we will pass any word to this particular network, okay, so it will perform the calculation over here.
Sunny Savita: It will interact with the weights. The weights, basically, which we have trained, right? Here, we will be having the learned weight, the train weight.
Sunny Savita: Here, what I can say, guys, here I would be having the trend weight.
Sunny Savita: Okay, either you can see the learn weight, or you can say the train weight, right? So this input, basically, is going to be converted into the 1H encoded vector, OHE.
Sunny Savita: internally, what is happening, right? How I will be getting embedding out of the word, right? So this is what I'm telling you, this is what I'm showing you. So if I'm passing any sort of a word, okay, this is what, this is my model, actually.
Sunny Savita: this is what, this is the model which I have trained.
Sunny Savita: This is my freeze model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is my freeze model.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys, tell me, this is my freeze model.
Sunny Savita: Freeze model means what? It is a trained model.
Sunny Savita: Getting my, getting my… getting this particular thing, guys, yes or no? This is a trained model, okay? Hamna model trained currently, we have trained a model, right? So it is a freeze model, or you can say it is a trained model.
Sunny Savita: Now, whenever we will pass any word, so it will be converted into the 1-0 encoded vector, internally, I'm saying, right, whatever library we are using, it is an abstract part of it.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, it is going to be interact with this particular weight, and whatever output I will be getting after this particular layer, the header layer, right, this particular output, now this is going to be what? This is going to be my embedding.
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be what, guys? This is going to be my embedding. Making sense to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? So, what I can say, guys, so embedding is nothing, it's a intermediate representation of the data.
Sunny Savita: What is the embedding, guys? Intermediate representation.
Sunny Savita: representation.
Sunny Savita: of the data. Or I can say, it is an intermediate output of the data.
Sunny Savita: I can explain this thing in the two words. First, intermediate representation of the data, or I can say intermediate, intermediate, basically, output of the model.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? No. Here, we are not going to be using the activation function, because in the paper also, they have mentioned, they haven't used the activation function inside the embedding layer.
Sunny Savita: So, is this thing clear? The Seabo is com- the Seabo is completely clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Please let me know in the chat, guys, if SIBO is completely clear. You can go through with these particular notes, and then, guys, you can understand this part.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, earlier you said meaningful numerical representation about embedding? No, it is not a different center. What I'm saying…
Sunny Savita: So, based on this particular, output, na, it is a intermediate data only, na? It is an intermediate vector only, na? It is a meaningful vector, that is truth, Manjuna.
Sunny Savita: It is a meaningful vector. How it is meaningful vector? Tell me how it is meaningful vector, because we are going to be connect… we are going to be multiplying our input vector with this weight matrix, and this is a learnable metric, this is a learnable parameter, right?
Sunny Savita: This is a learnable parameter, so after the multiplication, whatever embedding we will be getting over there, this is going to be a meaningful only, no? But guys, again, this is the intermediate output of the model.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is the intermediate output.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Very, very, very clear. Okay, now let's move to the next one. So, preparing a data for the escape gram. Can we start for the… can we start with the skip gram now?
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, we'll see the differences between the skip gram and the SIBO, so here I cap the complete differences and all everything. And after that, guys, we are moving towards the practical, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let's look into the skip gram. What is the skip gram?
Sunny Savita: So guys, we're talking about the escape gram.
Sunny Savita: So, again, this is one of the methods.
Sunny Savita: To train a word-to-back model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It is a… it is again a way to train, it is again a way to train a bird-to-back model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Guys, here is my data. Is this my data? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: This is the data, right?
Sunny Savita: So first, what I will have to do, I will have to prepare this data, okay? Means I will have to prepare the data in the form of input and output, because we are going to perform the supervised learning
Sunny Savita: What we are going to do today is tell me, we are going to perform the supervised learning.
Sunny Savita: Okay So, we'll have to prepare our data in the form of input and the output.
Sunny Savita: So guys, here you can see, this is the input now, and this is the output.
Sunny Savita: Can you see the input and output?
Sunny Savita: Can you see the input and output, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So let's understand how this input and output is being created. So again, guys, I'm going to be considered the window size. So here, let me rise the…
Sunny Savita: window size.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, window size could be anything 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, it is a hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: Hyperparameter as those parameters.
Sunny Savita: Hyperparameter are those parameters, which is not in fix.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's an experimental value.
Sunny Savita: Hyperparameter are the dose parameter.
Sunny Savita: Which is not a fixed one, it's the experimental values, okay? So we're talking about the window size, so here also I'm going to consider one. As of now, just to explain you the thing, I'm considering one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So guys, let's say this is my word.
Sunny Savita: So, how many surrounding what I'm going to be considered?
Sunny Savita: How many surrounding words I'm going to be considered?
Sunny Savita: Surround to the sunny.
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to be consider one. This one.
Sunny Savita: And this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, if we're talking about the SIBO, so inside the SIBO, guys, this sunny, actually, it's going to become my output.
Sunny Savita: And this follow, and this 4, actually, it's going to become my context. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this clear? Right? So Sunny is going to become my output, and this follow and for, it's going to become what? It's going to be become what? It's going to become my contacts. But here, actually, the thing is reverse. The thing is different. The thing is, oppose it.
Sunny Savita: Right? So here, the context would be what? The context would be sunny, the input is going to be sunny.
Sunny Savita: And the output is going to be this follow and this for.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now guys, let's say if I'm going to be considered this 4.
Sunny Savita: then this Jen, and this Sunny, right? So 4, basically, it is what? 4 is my input, this is my context, and the Sunny and Jen, actually, it's going to become my output.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, let's see if I'm going to be considered what… if I'm going to be considered as Jen, right?
Sunny Savita: So, one word right-hand side, one word left-hand side. So, Jen, basically, it will become my input.
Sunny Savita: And this 4X4, and this AI will become what? It will become my output.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting cleared? How to prepare our data?
Sunny Savita: Yes, we'll come to that, okay?
Sunny Savita: I will explain you the differences between the SIBO and the Skeep gram. We'll understand that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Every time, context window could be anything. It could be 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, whatever it could be, okay? So just to explain the thing, I'm taking one.
Sunny Savita: Why follow and AI is not present in model? You can keep that. You can keep the follow and AI also. But here, just to show you the symmetry, right, I'm keeping these 3 rows only.
Sunny Savita: You can keep anything, okay? You can keep this also, follow an AI. Yesterday, I've shown you one example, na. I capped over there now. In the real time, the data is going to be prepared like that only now, okay? But just to… just to make a simplified one, just to give you the simple, intuition, I'm keeping only this 3-row.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. Now, over here, guys, see, this is what, this is my input, and this is why, this is what, this is my output.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if you will check, see, like this also, we can represent our data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Like this also, we can represent a data. With that, basically, you will get a better understanding.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, you can see Sunny. Sunny is there, Sunny is connected, this is follow, and this is 4 also.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, you can see, this is what… this is my target word. Sorry, this is my context, Sunny. And what is a target word? This… what is a target word, guys? What is a target word? This follow and for is my target word.
Sunny Savita: Follow, okay? For, basically, is what? Input word. Sunny and Jen is what? Sunny and Jen is a target word. Now, Jen, actually, it's my input word. Then this 4 and AI, basically, it is what? It is my output word, okay? So, like this, also, we can represent a data.
Sunny Savita: at some places, in some blogs and all, right? So for the better interpretation, maybe, they have… they have… for the better interpretation, basically, you will get this kind of example also, okay?
Sunny Savita: This is a one… this is the one, this is the real one, it is a correct, but yeah, you will get like this also. So, Sunny is connected with the follow, means Sunny is a context, and follow is a target. Sunny is a context, follow is more.
Sunny Savita: 4 is a… 4 is a context, Sunny is a target, okay? 4 is a context, Jen is a target. Here you can see the same one.
Sunny Savita: 4 is a context, okay? Sunny, and Jen is a target, right? Now, over here, you can see Jen is a context.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and this foreign AI is what? Foreign AI is a target.
Sunny Savita: So, did you understand the data, guys? Tell me yes or no. Did you understand the data? Tell me yes or no. Now, just with your common sense, can you tell me, guys, where we are providing more context to the model?
Sunny Savita: Just with your common sense, with your common understanding, can you tell me in which dataset we are providing a more context to the model?
Sunny Savita: In which one we are providing a more context to the model.
Sunny Savita: Regarding any word, regarding any word, where we are providing that.
Sunny Savita: So, if you will look into the skibgram now, actually in the skipgram, we are mapping one word with the multiple target.
Sunny Savita: So here, actually, we will be getting a better learning.
Sunny Savita: And in the research paper also, they have mentioned the same thing.
Sunny Savita: What they have mentioned, you know.
Sunny Savita: So when they took the large data set, so with the escape gram, they were getting a good result, the good accuracy.
Sunny Savita: So in the escape ground, basically, they were getting a good accuracy.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Sir, how does model identify? Model k se… how model will identify, sir? We'll have to prepare the data na.
Sunny Savita: Huh?
Sunny Savita: Model will directly identify without preparing a data, hmm?
Sunny Savita: Who will prepare this data? You only will prepare this data na?
Sunny Savita: You will only write a code for this data in a… right? Why we have several libraries, like PyTor, scikit-learn, and all, to create a model and all, right? Whenever we create any machine learning or deep learning model, first we prepare the data, then we perform the feature engineering and all, then only we pass it to the model.
Sunny Savita: So how will model… how model identify will the data? We only will prepare the data, and we will only feed the data… feed the data to the model in this particular way. Got it, Raj?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. Okay? So, over here, yeah, I will come to that. I will come to the differences, and I will explain to you with a… I will again explain you this part, right? This escape ground versus SIBO, right? But guys, how the model will look like, how the trading will happen, can I show you that now?
Sunny Savita: How the training will happen.
Sunny Savita: Can we go ahead now with that? Yes or no? So, see, in the next slide, basically, I have kept that. So this is a representation of the… this is the representation of the… this is the representation of what, guys, this is the representation of the escape gram.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? I have written all those things by myself only, okay? So, here, guys, you can see we are passing this word, sunny.
Sunny Savita: This is what, this is my weight metrics.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys, this is what, this is my weight metrics.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, I will do the multiplication between what? Between this vector.
Sunny Savita: And this weight metrics, Okay?
Sunny Savita: weight metrics. Now, after the multiplication and all, whatever output I will be getting over here, This one, guys.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this is only going to be what? This is only going to be what, guys? This is only going to be what? This is only going to be my.
Sunny Savita: Embedding.
Sunny Savita: Right? Whatever output we'll be getting over here, the hidden output, right? This particular output, the hidden layer output.
Sunny Savita: Okay, done.
Sunny Savita: Layer.
Sunny Savita: Fadal layer output.
Sunny Savita: It'll layer output.
Sunny Savita: without activation, I can say over here, I can clearly say over here.
Sunny Savita: hidden layer output without activation function.
Sunny Savita: without activation function. Here, the activation function will not be there.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this will only be what? This will only be embedding, guys. But again, first we'll train the model only, no?
Sunny Savita: First, what we will do, guys, we'll train the model, okay? So, how the model will be trained? The model will be trained in the same way. So, we have a Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then the… we will multiply it with a bit matrixes, then this is going to be my output. Okay, this is the output, this is the predicted output, this is what… this is the softmax probability. I just kept some values over here, the softmax probability, this is the softmax probability, and this is my actual output, follow.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what we will do, guys, we will try to figure out the loss.
Sunny Savita: Between what? Between the predicted versus actual.
Sunny Savita: We will try to figure out a loss between predicted and lex… Predicted versus actual… predicted minus actual. And here, also the same one. See, this is what? This is the, predicted… this is what? This is the predicted vector, predicted probability. So how we are going to predict this vector? Using the soft mix, actually, we are going to predict that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Using the softmax only, we are going to predict that. Now, this is what, this is my actual one. This is my actual value.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we will do, guys, we will try to find out a loss between the predicted and actual, and my aim will be what? My aim will be to minimize the loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: my aim will be to minimize the loss, right? So, we have what? We have input.
Sunny Savita: Let me write over here. What we have, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So we have an input over here.
Sunny Savita: I can write everything. So what do we have, guys? Tell me. We have input, We have hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And we have output layer.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, what will happen, guys? The weight will be initialized initially. Now, how the weight we initialize? So, we initialize the random weight.
Sunny Savita: We initialize the random weight.
Sunny Savita: Now, during the epoch.
Sunny Savita: Okay? During the epoch, epoch is nothing, epoch means forward propagation, plus backward propagation. So during the epoch, basically, we train the model, okay? We train the model.
Sunny Savita: We train the model. What is the meaning of the training? Training means, basically, find out Find out
Sunny Savita: Best possible weight, Find out what? Find out best possible weight.
Sunny Savita: Find out best possible weight.
Sunny Savita: with… Minimum loss.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Find out best possible weight with the minimum loss. So what will happen, guys? What will happen? So, during the training, we will learn these weight matrices, we will find out a best possible weight.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We will try to find out a best possible way.
Sunny Savita: Right? And then we will freeze our model. We will freeze our model, right? So let's say we have freezed the model, means we have trained the model. You can say, either you can say freeze the model.
Sunny Savita: Or you can say, train the model.
Sunny Savita: So here is my model, guys. This is what… this is my model.
Sunny Savita: This one?
Sunny Savita: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. This is what, this is the input layer.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is the hidden layer. This one is what? This is the hidden layer. Okay. And this is what, guys? This is the output layer. Now, here we can have multiple words, right? Multiple words. Means multiple words, actually, it will try to predict.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Multiple word, basically, it will try to predict, because with one word, the multiple word is associated. So, here I've shown you the data now, this one. So, sunny is associated with the follow. Sunny is associated with the 4 also. Okay? So, here you can see this context window.
Sunny Savita: Here, you can see this output, basically. Sorry, here you can see this output, right? So, one word, basically, it is associated with the multiple words, so multiple words, it will try to predict.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Multiple world, basically, it will try to predict, right? One after, another one, right? So, it will be, you know, sequentially. Now, this is what, this is my model, guys. This is what, this is my model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is what? This is my model. Now, what will happen, guys? What will happen? Any new word will come in.
Sunny Savita: Any new word will be coming.
Sunny Savita: Okay, let's say what I'm writing. I'm writing sunny over here, okay? I am writing sunny. So, sunny will come over here. Now, after that, what will happen? Tell me. This will be converted into the 1-0 encoded vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This will be converted into the 1H encoded vector. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, this will be converted into the 1H encoded vector. It will pass through the weight matrix.
Sunny Savita: It will pass through the weight metrics, okay? Now, after that, guys, all the calculation will be happen, the dot product, basically. Usually, we do the dot product over here. So, after the dot product, after the calculation, whatever metrics will get… sorry, whatever vector will get over here, this one.
Sunny Savita: This intermediate representation, sorry, intermediate value, intermediate value of the header layer, this one. So this is going to be what? This is going to be my embedding.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be what? This is going to be what? This is going to be my embedding. Making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Not 2 output. This could be anything, na, Sargi, this could be anything. It depends on the… this depends on the… this depends on what? This depends on the window size.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You can keep window size too. The output, the output words is going to be increased over here.
Sunny Savita: Late?
Sunny Savita: The output word is going to be increase, okay? Pass-through weight metrics, how? Pass-through weight matrix means what? Pass-through weight matrix means multiplication. Input vector is going to be multiplied with a weight matrix.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, Aditya. You don't know about it?
Sunny Savita: You don't know about it, right? Let me tell you over here. So, let's say this is my input, okay, this is my input layer, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I can explain you that. So this is my input layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This one. So this, this, this is the input. Now I am passing, let's say, one vector over here. I can take a random value, let's say 1.2. Let's say here is what 2, let's say here is what 1. Okay, now how many widths would be there? Can anyone tell me how many widths will be there?
Sunny Savita: 6 weight will be there.
Sunny Savita: 6 weight would be there. Okay, so let me prepare the weight. Let me prepare the weight. Okay, so here, let's see, this is my first weight.
Sunny Savita: 2, 4 is my weight, right? Then, 6, 8. I'm just taking a random value, right? Then 3, 2 is my weight. So this is the weight for the first neuron.
Sunny Savita: For this one.
Sunny Savita: For this one, okay, this one. Then this is the weight, this is the weight, basically, the second row, basically, is representing the second neuron, okay? The connectivity with the both neuron, this one. This two-weight. And then the third one, basically, this third neuron.
Sunny Savita: This one, third row is basically is representing a weight of the third three neurons, okay? So my input vector will come over here. This is what is my input vector.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my input vector, 1.2, 2, and 1. Now, I will be having the multiplication. So, let's do the multiplication.
Sunny Savita: You know how to do the multiplication, right? So just do the multiplication between this vector and this matrix. So whatever output I will be getting, that will be output of the
Sunny Savita: That will be, this output, basically. This output will be, this output vector, and the matrix multiplication output will be going through the hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This will be output of the hidden layer, and this is only called my embedding.
Sunny Savita: Making sense now to all of you, yes or no? So, this entire concept, basically, it belonged to where? It belonged to the neural network. This entire concept, basically, it belonged to the neural network.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This weight matrix…
Sunny Savita: No, bait metric does not belong to the feature, okay? The bait, actually, it's an importance value.
Sunny Savita: Weight kya hota. Weight is an importance value.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: What is a weight? Okay, how many of you have seen my LoRa video? LoRa? I recently published one video on top of the LoRa. Just check out over there. I clearly explained about the weights over there.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Just check out that particular video, you will understand about the weights and all, right? Or else, you can check out the prerequisite. But I think, more than that, I cannot explain… it means this is, like, the finest explanation, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, I hope, guys, everything is clear. So, I'm going to ask you, finally, please tell me, guys, did you understand the… did you understand about the SIBO and the skibgram? Yes or no? Now, can we understand some differences in all?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Now, can we go ahead… can we go ahead, guys? Tell me, can we go ahead with the differences and all? What is the differences between the SIBO and the skibgram? The concept is pretty much clear. The explanation was a super. Did you understand everything? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: How SoftiMax is calculated? Again, I'm saying, Ritesha,
Sunny Savita: Check with the prerequisite, okay? SoftMax, basically, it is an activation function.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we have one formula for the softmax.
Sunny Savita: the formula basically is related to the exponential, I forget that formula. Is it something like that? E… E of the word, sorry, E of the output?
Sunny Savita: And then, we are doing a submission of all the probabilities, something like that, okay? Check out the formula of it. Based on this particular formula, only that value is being calculated, okay? So it is an activation function. It is an activation function for what? For the
Sunny Savita: output layer. Got it, Ritesha?
Sunny Savita: Okay, yes, Nikhil, we'll start that. Definitely, Nikhil. Nikhil Modiji, we'll start with the transformer, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine, Kilir, thank you. Now, guys, let's do one thing. Let's try to understand the differences, okay? So I capped some differences over here. Let's take a look, and after that, guys, we'll take a dinner break, and we'll, do the practical, okay?
Sunny Savita: Give me a moment, let me drink some water. Yes, sachin jaji padaenge, intentionally jih, aji complete karingge, okay?
Sunny Savita: Sir, what is the intuition behind the one word gives the multiple word?
Sunny Savita: No, not a multiple word output. One by one only, it is going to be predict. I capped all the thing over here only, inside this slide. Okay, Ali?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Aliji, after this one, your doubt will be clarified. Okay? So let me read it out that. So, if we're talking about… if we're talking about the SIBOV and the escape gram.
Sunny Savita: So there is some differences, right?
Sunny Savita: Oh, okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, speed-wise, SIBO is the fast, and escape gram is the slow.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: CBO is what? CBO is the fast, and skip ground would be slow. Sir, bouncer at diagram? Yes, it would be bouncer if your neural network basics is not clear. Okay, Rajneesh? Now, here, the accuracy-wise, we'll get the medium accuracy in the CBO,
Sunny Savita: And… High accuracy in the skip cram.
Sunny Savita: Okay? If we are going to be take, relatively, we are going to be take a used data.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: use data.
Sunny Savita: So you might get this thing. They have mentioned this thing inside the research paper. I'm not saying it by myself, because I'm not a creator. I'm not a creator of this particular technology. I'm just teaching you that whatever they have researched.
Sunny Savita: They… I'm just teaching you that, okay? So, accuracy-wise, medium accuracy in the SIBO, and high accuracy in the skigram, right? Now, rare words, so who is handling the rearward, very, like, efficiently?
Sunny Savita: So, this, SIBO, actually, it is weak in that, and skipgram is as strong in that, okay? And if we're talking about the data requirement, so here we have… we require the less data. With less data, guys, we can train our model, but guys, if we're talking about the skipgram, we require the more data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is some of the differences between that. I'll explain you with couple of examples, don't worry, we'll come to that.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if we're talking about the input vector, right? So, inside the SIBO, actually, we have multiple input vector.
Sunny Savita: Inside the escape ground, we just have one.
Sunny Savita: Basically, a vector, okay? Single vector. We're talking about the hidden layer, so in the SIBO, basically, we have an average, actually, right? We have an average.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Means we are passing a multiple vector, and we are taking an average value of it, right? In the skip gram, no average, nothing. Direct vector is going to be multiplier with the metrics, and we are getting what we are getting, guys.
Sunny Savita: we are getting our final embedding vector, okay? I'm talking with respect to the training perspective.
Sunny Savita: Right? Let me explain that. So, we're talking about the CBOR, so this is the…
Sunny Savita: two-word in the SIBO, which we are passing simultaneously.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, this is what? This is the hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, this will also be calculated, this will also be calculated?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, whatever embedding I'll be getting, it will be an average of these two.
Sunny Savita: Of this tool.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Whatever embedding I'll be getting, it will be an average of these two. But if we're talking about the escape gram, so inside the escape gram, we are just passing one single vector. Tell me yes or no. So this is what? This is my one single vector as an input, and this is what? This is my
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys, this is my hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: So here, we are not going to be to any sort of a… we are not going to be to any sort of a, like, average and all. So direct metric… direct metrics multiplication will be happen over here, and we'll be getting a final embedding output.
Sunny Savita: So, is it clear? Okay. Now, output-wise, guys, single output inside the SIBO, and in the escape ground, basically, we would be having a multiple output.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, guys? Is it clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Taking average and SIBO reduced the accuracy. Who told you that?
Sunny Savita: of every model, guys, we have two phases. The first phase of the model is… the first phase of the model is calling the, training, and the second phase of the model is calling the prediction.
Sunny Savita: It is also calling the inferencing, okay? So this is the differences. Now let me read out this particular paragraph, guys, and I hope you are also reading along with me. Just read this out. If someone is asking you in an interview, you can say in the same way. If we're talking about the SIBO and the Skeep Graham, guys, it differs not only in the data preparation.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but it also differs in the objective function, in training dynamics, and the learning behavior. SIBO predicts a target word from the surrounding context, using the average embedding.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. And making it faster, but less effective for the rearward.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but if we're talking about the escape gram, it predicts the multiple context word from the single target word, resulting in better representation, especially for the rear words, but with high computational cost.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? Yes or no, guys? So this is just a paragraph, paragraph-based explanation, whatever differences I've shown you over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? What is a rare words? What is a rare words? I'll come to that. I keep this… kept this example. We'll discuss that. Okay? Wait.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, let's understand couple of things over here.
Sunny Savita: You understood about the fast and slow, guys. Did you understand about the fast and slow? Really? Did you understand about the fast and slow? How the SIBO is fast, how this escape ground is fast, or you're just saying, yes, yes, yes to me? You did not understand, because I haven't given you the example.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let me show you the example, guys. This is the example. Just focus on this particular example, this particular example. So we're talking about, see.
Sunny Savita: Let's understand.
Sunny Savita: fast and slow. Okay, how this is fast and how this is slow.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, guys, here you can see multiple inputs, one output prediction.
Sunny Savita: So, this is about what, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: This is about what?
Sunny Savita: stable.
Sunny Savita: So guys, if we have multiple input, only one output prediction, One output prediction.
Sunny Savita: multiple inputs, one output prediction, okay? So, again and again, for the same word, again and again, we have to perform the epoch.
Sunny Savita: here you can see, if you will look into this particular data, if you will look into this particular data, guys. So, Sunny is connected to this follow, Sunny is connected to this 4.
Sunny Savita: Means, for the Sunny, we'll have to learn 2 times.
Sunny Savita: For the sunny, we have to learn two times. So, escapegram is fast, or it is slow?
Sunny Savita: 4 ke liya bhi do bar. For 4 also, we are learning 2 times.
Sunny Savita: So, Slohi Yoga, right?
Sunny Savita: Here you can see, guys, this one. So the same thing I written over here.
Sunny Savita: multiple import.
Sunny Savita: Okay, multiple input, one output prediction. SIVO. It is fast.
Sunny Savita: But guys, for every context window, separate prediction, separate loss. Means, for Sunny, let's say it is associated with the three words.
Sunny Savita: It is associated with the three words. So how many times the prediction would be there?
Sunny Savita: Three times. How many times? The loss is being calculated? Three times. Aribah here, see, diagram, they go. See, see this diagram. Just check with this diagram.
Sunny Savita: How many output is there?
Sunny Savita: How many times the loss is being calculated?
Sunny Savita: Did you understand, guys? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear to all of you? Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, guys, if we're talking about the rare word, let's understand about that. So, let's say we have a sentence, the dark, the king dark wine.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you can see, word king. Just think this word, actually, it's a rare word.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Rear word means what? Rear word means?
Sunny Savita: The word which is appearing, very low times, alright? The word, basically, which is appearing, very low times. Have you heard about the periodic table?
Sunny Savita: Periodic table.
Sunny Savita: So, in the periodic table, we have a rare element.
Sunny Savita: What is this? Uranium-235? Can anyone tell me what is this?
Sunny Savita: What is this, guys?
Sunny Savita: Sorry, but I'm unable to follow or understand completely. Confused. Sitaram, please ask me in a doubt session. Sir, please, it is a request. Ask me in a doubt session. Ask whatever you're not able to understand, okay? I'll help you out.
Sunny Savita: Because, see, what is the problem with you? You haven't seen the prerequisite, right? You haven't gone through with the previous session and all. You haven't checked with the previous, this notes and all, anything, nothing, sir. That's why you are not able to connect the dots.
Sunny Savita: So, what this thing is required, this thing is required, the revision. I learned this thing 5 times, or maybe 10 times, then only I'm able to get that. So, 50% is my effort, through this session, 50% will be yours, through the doubt and through the revision. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now over here, guys, you can see this U35 is the rear element. So, likewise, some word could be the rear one inside the data, actually. This is basically for the atomic bomb, right?
Sunny Savita: You know that Iran and USA war, so this, uranium actually is one of the key ingredients inside that. So, US don't want to, like, Iran to make this, atomic bomb?
Sunny Savita: And, like, Iran wants to be… create that. Now, how king is rare over here? We are just assuming that. Inside the sentence, king is rare, okay? Let's understand that. Let's take an example over here.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here, the king is there. Okay, now, just see over here.
Sunny Savita: I'll be talking about king. If I want to predict the king, based on this context, so in SIBO,
Sunny Savita: The king is only an output, so it is embedding get updated indirectly.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but if we're talking about the escape gram, so king is associated with the, the king is associated with the drink, and the, the key, basically, sorry, the king, basically, it is associated with the wine.
Sunny Savita: So in Escapegram, King is directly trained, leading to a stronger embedding. Okay, so in Escapegram, basically, we are showing a strong connection.
Sunny Savita: a strong connection, rather than this SIBO.
Sunny Savita: Rather than this SIBO. So if… is there any rearboard inside the data?
Sunny Savita: If any rare word inside the data. So, this escape gram is able to handle it very properly.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, this escapegram, basically, it is able to handle that, okay? It is very capable to handle the… it is very capable to handle the rare words. Why? Because it is showing the multiple connection with that particular word. So, king, the, king drank, king wine.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, you can see, inside the SIBO, we just have single sentence, single context, and here is the prediction. The prediction is the king.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys. Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting killer to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Very easy, very easy to understand, okay? Nothing is there, nothing is difficult over here. Let me explain you one more time, okay? So let's say if I'm going to be right over here.
Sunny Savita: my… name, is… Sunny. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, tell me, if I'm going to be created data, seaboard data, okay? Let's say I'm going to be create a seaboard data.
Sunny Savita: So, the SIBO data, what I'll do…
Sunny Savita: My name is Sunny, or I can extend the sentence, and I… AIs?
Sunny Savita: AI?
Sunny Savita: is… Maya?
Sunny Savita: Favorite subject.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, my name is Sonny.
Sunny Savita: Let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: My name is Sonny.
Sunny Savita: And AI is my favorite subject. Now, here is Sunny.
Sunny Savita: If I'm taking window size, is equal to 2. Can we prepare a data for the sunny?
Sunny Savita: So, sunny is going to be what? Sunny is going to be what is my target.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is going to be my context? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: How many words? 22 words.
Sunny Savita: Okay, two, two words.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, name… Is… AI.
Sunny Savita: is. Now, based on this context, we are going to predict Sunny.
Sunny Savita: We are going to train our model. Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the scheme gram.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the escape gram.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the skip gram. So, how we will train a model inside the skipgram?
Sunny Savita: So, context is going to be sunny.
Sunny Savita: Right? And here, target is going to be what? Target is going to be multiple.
Sunny Savita: name, AI is… Okay?
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be what? This is going to be my target.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, where I will be getting a better learning, better learning, better learning? Inside the Escapegram, I will be get a better learning, or inside the SIBO, I will be getting a better learning.
Sunny Savita: Definitely, sir, escape gram, right? So that's what I'm saying. If there is any reward inside the data, it will be handled well inside the escape gram. This is proven and tested.
Sunny Savita: It's stronger embedding.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? So, how's the explanation of this entire Word2Back chapter?
Sunny Savita: Just go through with it again, you will get understand. You will get everything, guys. Now, we'll go through with the… now, guys, we'll go through with what? Now, guys, we'll go through with the… basically, training, okay? We'll train a custom model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I'm providing you the notes also, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I'm providing you this, particular notes, I'm just keeping that inside the GitHub only, okay? You can take directly from there. You can take a revision, until the break… inside the break, and then in the doubt session, you can ask me the doubt.
Sunny Savita: So, did you like the session, guys? Did you like the explanation? Are we going in a good pace?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Kirti Teja is saying, no, sir, no, I didn't like that. Okay, Kirti, please discuss with me what you did not understand, okay? Again, I'm saying.
Sunny Savita: I cannot deep dive into the neural network. I cannot spoon-feed neural network inside this course, guys. Again, it's a…
Sunny Savita: what I can do, guys, I can request to you guys, please watch the prerequisite. Most of the doubt will be clear. The revision is required for this particular topic. This is a typical topic, guys, typical topic. This kind of topic takes… required the revision. Okay, guys, you won't believe.
Sunny Savita: I have 6 to 7 years of core working experience in the data science, okay? Still, if I'm learning this thing, maybe today also, I will learn something new over here.
Sunny Savita: Something new.
Sunny Savita: Even though I learned this topic maybe 7 to 8 times, I taught in my previous class. See, let me show you the previous class notes also. See, this is the previous class notes.
Sunny Savita: Previous batch notes. I have, like, taught this topic in so many batches, but guys.
Sunny Savita: Even though… even if I have taught this topic in the different, different classes, today I was learning this thing, I learned something new.
Sunny Savita: So, this kind of topic is required revision.
Sunny Savita: Core, deep, mathematical understanding.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Everything we are providing you, if you have touch base, at least the touch base of this topic, then it is fine. No need to panic.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So, fine.
Sunny Savita: I post the notes, you can take it from here.
Sunny Savita: Rajin is like, touch base hitho guy,
Sunny Savita: Okay, sir, no worries.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so let's take a break, and I'll see you after the break. Thank you. Thank you, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, I will see you after the dinner break. Thank you, everyone.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's start with the session.
Sunny Savita: which doubt session, I don't see in the Zoom session. Or a doubt session, sir. After the… after every class, we have a doubt session. So, right after every class now, I take doubt session, okay?
Sunny Savita: Talk about it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start again? Please give me quick confirmation.
Sunny Savita: If everyone is there, please let me know, I'll start with the session.
Sunny Savita: Just… just give me a moment, okay, guys?
Sunny Savita: Okay, let's start.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, first what we'll do, we'll do the practical, we'll do the custom training.
Sunny Savita: And I hope you have the entire code now. Sorry, you have that data, right?
Sunny Savita: So please, open the GitHub and take the data from there.
Sunny Savita: Do it, guys, fast.
Sunny Savita: Have you, basically triggered the data?
Sunny Savita: The data basically is here inside this data folder.
Sunny Savita: Or else, don't perform any practical, do one thing. After, the explanation, basically, you can do that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So first, let's… let me explain, and then, basically, you can perform the spectacle.
Sunny Savita: So what I'll do, first of all, guys, I'll import the required library, right? And if any moment, if any moment, if you're going to be stuck somewhere, right, if you're not able to understand, then the co-pilot is for you.
Sunny Savita: Here is a co-pilot, so any practical-related stuff, any practical-related doubt, code generation and all, you can ask over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And please make a habit to use the co-pilot. This is very required.
Sunny Savita: So, do we need to run the recond.txt, as we have added the NLTK? Yes, you can run that, or it's in a standalone only, you can install that particular package inside the virtual environment.
Sunny Savita: Okay, directly also you can install that particular package inside the virtual environment, and keep the NLTK inside the recand.txt, right?
Sunny Savita: Good.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what I'm doing, guys, here I'm going to import the required packages.
Sunny Savita: Just a sec.
Sunny Savita: So the first one is going to be Panda, second is NumPy, third is the OS operating system, then Jensim and NLTK, okay? So this is the required packages, guys. Can you see over here? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So, these many packages, we would be required.
Sunny Savita: we would be required to perform this spectacle. So first, what I'll do, guys, I'll import it, let me execute it.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, I'll run one more command.
Sunny Savita: So the command, basically, It's going to be nltk.download.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And I'm going to be download.
Sunny Savita: all the… all the resources from the NRDK.
Sunny Savita: Right? I will, mention all over here, I will be installing all the resources from where? From the NLTK, okay? So once I will execute it, guys, see, I already installed, it was already there inside the cache, so it is very faster for me.
Sunny Savita: But if you are doing it first time, maybe it might, take some time inside your system, right? Now, why we are doing this nltk.download.all.
Sunny Savita: Why we are doing that? So that we can download all the required resources from the NLTK for handling the tokenization, for handling the stop word, right? For handling the sentence tokenization.
Sunny Savita: Right? For handle the word level tokenization, WordNet library, the different, different other things, right? POS tags and all. Everything is there inside the NLTK, so we are downloading all the resources from the NLTK.
Sunny Savita: What is the full form of the NLTK? I think Natural Language Toolkit.
Sunny Savita: It is a library. It is a package, right? So, it is a package for what? It is a package for, tax preprocessing.
Sunny Savita: It is a very famous package in the NLP, okay? In the world of NLP.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, so from NLTK only, I'm going to be import, The sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: from NLTK.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to import sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And I'm going to import one more thing from the Gensim. So, from Gensim, Oh…
Sunny Savita: I am going to be import this simple process, okay?
Sunny Savita: So there's two things will be required to us. The first, basically, the simple process, and second, basically, what? This sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Yes, Natural Language Toolkit, correct. Now, what I'm doing, so it is our same package available in the Java? No, I don't think so. It is a Python-specific package, right? Especially NLTK, and the other packages, basically, it's a Pythonic packages.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, guys, what we will do, after importing the sentence tokenizer and the simple process, simple preprocess, I will load the data. So let me load the data. So what I'll do for that, I'll write 4.
Sunny Savita: file.
Sunny Savita: And I'll write over here OS.
Sunny Savita: list directory.
Sunny Savita: And I'll write data over here, and then print file.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, where this data is available? So, this data is available in the current directory, so I will mention this dot over here. So, once I will execute, guys, I will be getting the data. So, histori1.txt, sorry, I will get my file name, histori1.txt and story2.txt are two files there. Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So we are just going to be check how many files are there inside the folder, okay? That's it. Nothing else.
Sunny Savita: So, can you share some context on why those specific imports, specific imports? Yes, once we'll come to the code now, that thing will automatically clear, right? Now, guys, what I'll do… so, this is the file which is available inside this particular folder, so I will read out one file.
Sunny Savita: So what I will do, guys, here I will write open.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And then, guys, I will mention the file path. I will mention the file path. So here, guys, what I will do, I'll write R, okay? And then, I will mention the file path over here, and I will mention the encoding variable also.
Sunny Savita: Right? Encoding, Unicode, escape. Right? So, this is the standard way of loading a data. Now, what I will do, guys, so over here, see, this is the file, I will open the file, I will take the file path, and I'll pass it over here.
Sunny Savita: So, where is my file? Here is my file. I'll just click onto this. So, first, let me show you what kind of data, basically, I have inside this particular file.
Sunny Savita: So I copy the complete path, and I pasted over here, and now I will keep it inside the app variable. Okay, so this is what, this is my file.
Sunny Savita: So, I got a file, okay, if I will show you this app, so see what I have. I have a file object over here. Now, once I will call the read on top of it, read on top of this particular file, app.read.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, you can see, after running this app.read, we are able to get the data from the file.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. So this is the data, basically, which is available inside the file.
Sunny Savita: This is the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, on top of this data only, we are going to train our model. This data could be available anywhere, at any place, inside your system.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This data could be anywhere, anywhere inside your system, it could be in database, it could be in any file, PDF, Word document and all, wherever, right?
Sunny Savita: Sir, trying to code with you. Sayan, don't try to code with me. Please. It's a request. Okay? Please run… please check first what is happening, then do it later on. Okay? Sir, why don't you use with open? I use with open only, no? Here is open, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, we can use with the open also, no? Just write read over here, that's it. Open with, you can call the read over here, that's fine. It's up to me, up to you only. So this is the data, guys. I'll come to the data, okay? I will come to the data. Now, this is what… this is my data, this is my corpus. So what I'll do, I'll keep this particular data inside one variable.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So this is what… this is my data. Now let me show you this particular data.
Sunny Savita: Oh, where it went, corpus, corpus, corpus. F.R data.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, let me execute it again. F, F, f.read is fine.
Sunny Savita: Then, corpus… why it is coming like this, empty.
Sunny Savita: Cuts around the end of the line. Just a second, guys. Again, I'm going to be execute… maybe something is wrong. F is there. Okay, F object is fine.
Sunny Savita: App.read is here, let me delete this part.
Sunny Savita: app.read, okay? Okay, fine, guys. I think I cannot read it again. Maybe I will get this empty corpus only. I will have to keep it over here itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: So that the cursor is moving, means, if I'm going to be executing the same function, app.read, second time only, I will not be able to get a data. So let me delete this part, now let me show you that. So here is my app, this is my app, app.read, and see, this is the corpus.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So only one time only I can execute the read on top of it.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I will do, so after that, basically, I will pass this particular data to the sentence, okay, sentence tokenizer, because before passing this data, to the model, okay, for training the model, we'll have to pre-process the data. So let me show you some text pre-processing over here.
Sunny Savita: So, we… I have imported one, I imported what, guys? I imported one, method, sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: So, to the sentence tokenizer, basically, I will pass this corpus, okay? If I'm going to be executed, guys, so see, it is going to be convert my data into the sentence.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this one?
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be convert my data into the sentence. Now, on which basis, basically, it's going to be convert my data into the sentence.
Sunny Savita: So, it considers the different, different parameter. Slash and dot, okay, means full stop, question mark. So, whatever you are going to be provide, whatever special character variable you are going to be provide, according to that, it is going to be token, it is going to be sentinize my data, okay? It's going to be convert my data into the sentences.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, by default, guys, is it considered the… by default, guys, it considered the, full stop.
Sunny Savita: If I'm not going to be past anything, any special thing, so by default, basically, it's going to be considered what? It's going to be considered the fullest stop.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so here is what, guys? Here you can see we have a sentences. Okay, we have what? We have our sentences. We'll have to do some pre-processing of the data before passing it to the model. So this is what I can say, this is my raw sentences.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is what… this is my raw sentences. Now, what I will do, guys, see, I will pass it to the… I will pass this particular sentence to one more method, which I have already imported. The method is called the simple process, right? So the simple process, what it will do, it will convert my sentences into the word token.
Sunny Savita: Into the tokens, basically, right? So, let me show you guys, see, if I'm going to be executed. So, am I getting token?
Sunny Savita: In each and every sentence, guys, I'm able to convert my data into the tokens. So what is my ultimate goal, guys? So my ultimate goal, basically, to convert my data into the token. Because we will feed the data for the custom training, and we have to be… keep our data into this particular format.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We'll be keeping our data into this particular format. So, we are doing this tax preprocessing, and what is the end goal of this tax preprocessing? So, the end goal of the tax preprocessing, basically, to create a token.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, what I will do, guys, I will do this with both the file. So, I will write a logic over here.
Sunny Savita: First is what?
Sunny Savita: folder path.
Sunny Savita: So, I'll give the folder path, this is the folder path, okay? Now, what I will do, guys, I will create a variable over here.
Sunny Savita: The variable is going to be a story.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so inside this variable only, I will be keeping my own entire data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now what I'll do, guys, I will list all the file from the folder, I will check if it is going to be end with this TXT, I will open that file, okay? And what I will do, guys, I will tokenize that data.
Sunny Savita: After the tokenization, guys, what I will do, I will… sorry, first, I will perform the sentence tokenization, and then I will… what? I will perform the word tokenization. So, let me do one thing, let me give you that particular logic. See, here is that logic, guys, this one. So, I'm iterating over the file folder, basically.
Sunny Savita: And I'm taking a file over here, okay? And then I'm creating a file path. So I'll be getting a file path, then I'm opening that file path.
Sunny Savita: And I'm reading that corpus, I'm passing it to the sentence tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: And then, I am converting that particular data into the tokens, okay, and I'm appending inside the list.
Sunny Savita: So inside this list only, I'm keeping the tokens regarding each and every file data.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes? Is this logic clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so if I'm going to be executed, guys, so what I will be getting, if I will check with this story, so what I will be getting, I'll be getting this, this story, see?
Sunny Savita: It is having the data from both of the files.
Sunny Savita: And it has converted our data into the tokens, into the wards.
Sunny Savita: Yes, sentence token. Sorry, raw sentence is also a list. Yes, you are right.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So inside this particular list, basically, we capped our data, and the data is available over here. So we have to convert our data into this particular format before passing it to the model training.
Sunny Savita: You can check out the first sentence. Let's say if you want to check out the first sentence, you can check out over here.
Sunny Savita: You can write the story, 0.
Sunny Savita: And see, this is the first sentence.
Sunny Savita: You can check out the second sentence also. So just write over here, Story 1.
Sunny Savita: See, this is the second sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Is it clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. This is not a vocabulary, just a simple token, the word token, right? We haven't created a vocabulary so far.
Sunny Savita: Nate?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you? Now, why this encoding UTF? So, this encoding UTF is required for what? For the Windows, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's a specific, special token, this encoding, actually, encoding of the data. So whenever you are reading a file, and if you are getting any sort of an error, UTF encoding and all, then you can mention this particular variable, this particular value, UTF value, or this Unicode, escape, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Now, guys, what I'll do, so after that, guys, I will train my model on top of this particular data. So first, guys, let's look into the data, that what is there inside the data.
Sunny Savita: Can we check out that?
Sunny Savita: Right? Because once… with one single line, I can train my model over here. So what is going to that line? I will use a GenSIM over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'll write up models.
Sunny Savita: Then I'll pass the word… I will write the word to back.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this word-to-back method, I need to pass a different, different parameter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what I'll be passing, guys, the first parameter is going to be window size. So what window size I can consider? Can I consider 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11?
Sunny Savita: I can consider any number over here. Let's say I'm going to be considered 10. You can keep any number, or else you can test out the accuracy with the different, different numbers, and whichever number is good for you, you can keep that number, okay?
Sunny Savita: you can perform the hyperparameter tuning. Now, I'm going to be keep one more variable over here. The variable is going to be minimum count 2. What is the meaning of the minimum count of 2?
Sunny Savita: If any word which is coming less than, let's say, 5 times, okay, I'm keeping 5 times, so I'm not going to be considered that particular word.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I'm not going to be considered that particular word. Let's say, inside the data, I have a word, which is sunny.
Sunny Savita: Right? Which is coming 100 times. Inside the data, I have one more word, let's say, Divyaj.
Sunny Savita: So this Devyanshakt is coming 6th time.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now inside the… inside the data, we have one more word, let's say Rahul.
Sunny Savita: Now, Rahul is coming only 3 times. Now, tell me, guys, which word we are going to be considered throughout this training.
Sunny Savita: Which word we are going to be considered throughout this training.
Sunny Savita: Sunny and Debianch only, we are going to be considered… we are not going to be considered the Rahul. So that type of constraint… that type of constraint only we can put just to reduce the noise from the data.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: But Rahul will be a rare word. Don't, connect this thing with that thing, okay? This is just to reduce some noise, to reduce some unnecessary thing. If something is very, very rare inside the very big data, so we can reduce it like this, okay?
Sunny Savita: Right? If the deviance is coming 6 times, this could not be a rare word, Sudarshan. If we have a one lakh word, and the deviange is coming 6 times, this is a rare word, huh?
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. It is reducing the outlier.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can say like that also.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, we are going to be reduce a word which is having minimum count less than 5, which is not coming more than 5.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here, we are going to be reduce the word which is having a frequency less than 5, right? This is the one thing. Now, I'm going to be mentioning one more thing, guys, vector size, okay? Now, what is this vector size? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: What is the vector size, guys?
Sunny Savita: What is the vector size?
Sunny Savita: So the vector size, basically, it is nothing, it's a dimension of the vector. So, guys, tell me, we have seen the Google model, right, Google model. So what was the dimension of the Google model?
Sunny Savita: 300, right? Means, inside the Google model, they were having the 300 neurons inside the hidden layer, is it right? If we're talking about our model, can we keep it 150? You can keep it anything. Again, it is a hyperparameter. You can keep it 5, 10, 12, 15, 40, 60, 70, 100, 200, whatever, coming in your mind.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It is not a vocabulary, actually, it is a vector size.
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second, I think I disconnected. Wait, wait, wait, guys.
Sunny Savita: Guys, I think I got disconnected. Is it clear to all of you now? Sorry, my voice is clear now.
Sunny Savita: I was trying to speak, maybe because of some internet connection, I disconnected.
Sunny Savita: Ops are here, everything is fine now.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I think there was some internet glitch because of that, I disconnected. Okay, great. So guys, we're talking about the vector size, so this is our…
Sunny Savita: dimension of the embedding, right? Dimension of the embedding, and it depends on the… and it depends on what? The size of the hidden neurons.
Sunny Savita: The size of what? The size of the hidden neuron. Okay? Is it good to have vector size? What will happen? Vector size less than the declared one?
Sunny Savita: Sorry, I didn't get that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so it is a number of neurons. So if you will sync up the theory and the practical now, everything is going to be connected over here.
Sunny Savita: Right? Everything is going to be what? Everything is going to be connect over here. Okay? What is a minimum count? Alright, RCSG, minimum count. Here, I've shown you that minimum count. Minimum count means…
Sunny Savita: The word, basically, which is having a frequency less than 5 inside the data, that word I'm not going to consider inside the training. That is a minimum count. That's it.
Sunny Savita: Understood.
Sunny Savita: What is a vector size? Yes, vector size, actually, it's a dimension of the vector.
Sunny Savita: Vector size is what? It is a dimension of the vector. If I will give my word, in whatever dimension the vector is going to be generated, it is a number of that. And if we're talking about the word-to-back model, so it is equivalent to what? It is equivalent to the number of neurons inside the hidden layer.
Sunny Savita: Understand, guys, understand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. This value could be anything. You can set anything. These all are the hyperparameter. So I can see over… I can mention over here.
Sunny Savita: This, all the value are the hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: This all the values… RD… hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: You can write any sort of a value, you can test out, you can perform the training with any of your value, okay? So this is what, guys, what I'll do, guys, I'll keep it inside the variable, and I'm write… I'm writing a variable name, custom model.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? So, this is what… this is my custom model. Now, it's going to be performed, it's going to be perform the SIBO or Skipgram. Yes, this is a very
Sunny Savita: Interesting question. So, for that, guys, we'll have to mention one more parameter. Let me give you that also. So, we are going to be mentioned this one. We are going to be mentioned this parameter.
Sunny Savita: inside this particular word to back, if I'm going to be mentioned SG is equal to 0. Okay, by default, it will be 0 only, so it's going to be CBOM. But if I'm going to be mentioned SG, skipgram is equal to 1, then it will perform the skipgram.
Sunny Savita: So, as of now, by default, it is performing the… so, as of now, by default, it is performing what? It is performing the skipgram.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no? So, you will have to mention this particular parameter, this particular parameter where inside this method.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This particular method, we are inside this method. So, SG0 means what? SG0 means SIBO. And by default, SG will be 0, and this is going to be by default.
Sunny Savita: Okay? If you're not going to be mentioned anything, so this is going to be a by default one. Now, if you're going to be mentioned as G is equal to 1, so it will become a skipgram.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Yes, SG means what? It's keep gram. And 0 and 1 is what? It's a, like, Boolean value, true and false.
Sunny Savita: So is it clear to all of you? This custom model is clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I hope this entire thing is clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's understand how we can perform the training, okay? Yes, as of now, by default, the SG will be the zero, so by default, it will be CBOR. Now, if we have a less data, then we can go with a CBOR. If we have a huge data set, bigger data set, so we can go with the escape gram, okay?
Sunny Savita: Anything you can select over here, no worries. Even you can train… even… even you can train this model with a skipgram also. So just mention this… mention this SG is equal to 1. It will be trained with the skipgram method.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Tell me yes or no. So, you can do that. You can perform that practical. I'll give you this particular… I'll give you this particular file, you can perform that practical, right? Now.
Sunny Savita: what I can do, guys, I can, run one thing, right? What I can do, guys, I can, run one method on top of it.
Sunny Savita: The method name is going to be custom model.buildvocabulary, okay? So I'm passing my story. See, this is what… I have a custom model now. I initialize the custom model. Now, using this custom model, basically, I can build the vocabulary, okay? So once I run it, guys, so internally, the vocabulary is going to be built out of my data, out of my story.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, by default, yes, by default, will be CBO only. If I'm not going to mention anything, that is called the by default now, mesh thing g, right? So, by default, it will be CBO. If I'm going to be mentioned SG is equal to 1, so it will become a skip ground. Here, I will have to mention that particular parameter.
Sunny Savita: Making sense? Okay. Now, over here, guys, you can see custom model, custommodel.buildvocabulary, so I will be getting what? I'll be getting my story.
Sunny Savita: Right? I hope, this thing is clear to all of you. Now, if I wanted to train this model, okay, it will train very quickly, let me show you, because it is a very shallow model, with one hidden layer only. So in my system, like, having a higher configuration, it will, like, train very, very quickly, because the data set is also very, very small.
Sunny Savita: So I'll take this custom model, and I just have to call one thing on top of it. I'll just have to call one method. The method name is going to be train, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, method name is going to be what? Method name is going to be train. So to this train, basically, I have to pass some parameter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So to this train, basically, I'll be passing the story, means my actual data, whatever data I preprocess, right? After that, guys, what I'll do, I'll pass one more parameter.
Sunny Savita: So the parameter, basically, it's going to be what? Total example, right? I'll show you this total example, what is this? And then, guys, what I'll be passing, I'll be passing the number of epoch. So the number of epoch, basically, it is a training one. It is for the training one, right? So this is, again, a hyperparameter. You can pass any number of value over here.
Sunny Savita: So, I will take custom model, I will call this train, I will pass my story, okay? I will pass this total example. This total example is nothing, it is a corpus, means it is a sentence, actually, right? If I'm going to be executed without it, so it will not allow to me. Let me show you that. If I'm going to be remove this particular parameter, I'm keeping it over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let me show you guys. So, it will give me the error. Okay, I'll show you what is this. So, here you can see I'm getting an error. You must specify either total example or total word for the proper learning rate. Okay, so it will not allow to me to train a model without this,
Sunny Savita: Without this corpus count. So, what is this? Let me show you that. So, if you are going to check with this custom model, corpus count, right? So just check out with this corpus count. So, it is nothing, guys, it is just a total number of sentences. It is just a total number of sentences inside your data.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, it is nothing. CorpusCount means what? It is just a total number of sentences inside your data, okay? So, custommodel.corpuscount, you are getting 44 over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I will do, guys, I will mention that particular parameter, and I will perform the training.
Sunny Savita: Now, this epoch, again, I'm saying it is a hyperparameter. No one can decide the number of this epoch, because it is a hyperparameter, it is an experimental value. So, either I am training this model, either Sundar Picha is training that model, either Sam Altman is training that model, even that person even don't know what would be the value of this epoch.
Sunny Savita: Because this is a hyperparameter, okay? So the epoch number could be anything. The epoch number could be this epoch 5,
Sunny Savita: It could be Epoch 50, it could be Epoch 500, it could be Epoch 5000, okay, it could be Epoch 5 lakh.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Hyperparameter are those values, which we cannot decide.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Yes, correct. How many times? Repeat learning on the, full data. Now, I hope you are able to understand, the complete theory and practical. You are able to synchronize everything.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You're able to synchronize everything, you're able to sync everything. So just do it from your end, just, go ahead with your end, okay? Check, basically, how the model you can train, what all, like, parameters you can mention, escape program, all, take a different, different type of data, okay? You can do that.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we can do. So, here I'm going to be executed, so my model will be trained. See here, guys, what I got? I got the custommodel.train, okay? So, this is what, guys, I got two value over here, 119, okay, and 2610.
Sunny Savita: So when I check with the documentation and all, so what is this value, basically, which I'm getting after the training, so I got something, okay? So, let me share with you that.
Sunny Savita: So, what I can do, guys, I can… Share the detail, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So here, guys, you can see this 119, okay, and 2610. So 1190, 119, basically, it's a number of documents.
Sunny Savita: Okay? How, basically, it's treating our data in a backend? The number of documents. And 2610, basically, it's a unique word inside the data. So while it trained the model, so it calculated something internally, okay? And, it, whenever you will run this custom model.train, so you will get some number, okay, some di- some dimensional number. So 119 basically means what? Number of documents, and 260 means what? Number of unique words, okay?
Sunny Savita: So we no need to, like, go with this, right? I just need to check the output of the model, what output I'm getting, basically. So, let's check out the output. So, what I'm doing, I'm just taking this custom model, okay?
Sunny Savita: And to this custom model, basically, what I'm doing, I'm giving… I'm going to be generate a bag of what, right? So here, I'm going to… here I am passing what? Here, I'm passing, basically, original, right? Arjun.
Sunny Savita: Yes, correct. 2610 is a vocabulary. Your understanding is correct, yeah. So here, guys, I'm passing the words over here, right? This custommodel.wb, word vector, and Arjun. Can anyone tell me what will be the dimension of this particular word?
Sunny Savita: What will be the dimension of this particular word?
Sunny Savita: Can anyone tell me what will be the dimension of this particular word? If I'm going to be executed, guys, so am I getting vector from my custom model? Am I getting from my custom model? Did I train my custom model?
Sunny Savita: Now, the dimension of this particular vector is going to be… acha, Google Kim Dimension Kitnata. Tell me, Google Dimension Kitnata. How was the Google… what was the Google dimension? 300. Now, let's check out with the other… our one. So, the hour dimension, basically, is going to be…
Sunny Savita: 150.
Sunny Savita: So, is this doubt as clear to all of you, yes or no? I think many people were asking to me, sir, how to train this custom word-to-back model, how to reduce the size of the vector, right? How to get this, that, and all, right? So, I hope you are able to get… now, someone still is asking, sir, how were 150 a SRG?
Sunny Savita: Here, I mentioned that, no, vector size, this one.
Sunny Savita: This is the vector side.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, guys, now I'm giving you this particular code, and after that, guys, we'll perform a few more operations, right? Few more operations on top of it.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm giving you this particular code, and I'm giving you one minute of time.
Sunny Savita: I'm giving you one minute of time so that you can, go ahead with this entire code. So, how's the explanation, guys? Now you are able to sync the complete theory and the practical.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: So, let me add the code, git commit.
Sunny Savita: iPhone Air?
Sunny Savita: Code.
Sunny Savita: Commit.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me push this entire changes.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Sir, please show me the, again, what is the result. Sweetal is asking, yes, Sheetal, I'll show you that, okay? Don't worry. We'll perform so many things over here now, the different, different operation will see, based on the story only. So we'll read out the story, and we'll see, because…
Sunny Savita: So far, we haven't gone through with the data. I'll go through with that, right? And I will show you the different, different result from there.
Sunny Savita: Bye.
Sunny Savita: Sir, corpus count was 44, document, why different? No, that is being calculated in a different way. A backend, basically, I don't know how it is being chunking. The Gensim model, basically, which they have created, okay? It is giving 199. But in a manual way, basically, like, we prepare a data, it is a 44, initially. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, I've given you the code. Please check out. Please check out that particular code.
Sunny Savita: Just go through with the GitHub, you will get it over here. This one.
Sunny Savita: Just refresh this GitHub.
Sunny Savita: And inside this particular folder, just check out this custom verticalbacktraining.ipYNB.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, you can see, guys, this is the code.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Is there any alternative of the gens? You can check that, okay? Either you… either you can write the code from scratch.
Sunny Savita: That is also possible.
Sunny Savita: Sir, why dimension is not equal to the array? Sir, in word to back, actually, dimension is not equal to number of vocabulary. Understand, sir. Understand the architecture. Go again through the entire, like, this mathematical explanation and all, okay?
Sunny Savita: Perfect, guys, so I've given the code, please check it out, this particular code, right? And after that, what we will do, after that.
Sunny Savita: Basically, I'll show you a couple of more operations on top of it. So, I'm giving you one minute of break, guys, quick water break, until check out this entire code.
Sunny Savita: Take this entire code, okay? Do it, guys, fast.
Sunny Savita: You checked the code that you've gone through with the code?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I think everyone has checked the code. I provided the code.
Sunny Savita: So, please check that out, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what we'll do now, so just read out the story, if you will, go and check with the story, guys. So, here we have two files. So, have you checked with the story? Have you checked with the story, guys? Just, just check out with the story, just try to read it out this data.
Sunny Savita: So what I written over here, see, once upon a time, there was a young boy, Arjun, who lived in a small town surrounded by the hills and rivers, right? He was very curious about the thing, work, always ask questions, his parents
Sunny Savita: often smiled to his curiosity, right? Every day, school Arjun shit with his books, explored different topics. He was especially fascinated with science, technology. He wanted to understand how machine thinks, right?
Sunny Savita: Blah blah blah, right? Whatever. Then, one day, while browsing through old computer and school, Arjun discovered the concept of the AI. He read about how machines can learn from the data, recognize patterns, and even make decisions. This idea completely amazed.
Sunny Savita: Then he started Imagine Future in the AI, right? The complex problem. Arjun began learning of the programming using free resources. Okay, this is that, right? And slowly, he started building a small program. Then his teacher noticed the interest, guided him whenever he stuck. Arjun also started reading about data algorithm, machine learning, and all.
Sunny Savita: And even though he faced many challenges, he never gave up. He kept learning, practicing, and improving single day, right? So a story, basically, the boy about, like, who wanted to learn the AI.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, if you will check out with the second one, so this is the second story, right? So, just read out this story also. So, it is also related to the same one. So, it is a continuous part of what? It is a continuous part of the first story itself.
Sunny Savita: So just, read this story as a time passed, Arjun more is skilled in the programming. Right at the end, what Arjun did? He become a, like, AI engineer, or something like that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So now what we do, guys, let's try to find out some relationship. Now, why I sh…
Sunny Savita: why I, like, tell you this story, why I told you this story, right? So that we can perform some mathematical operations, right? We can perform some mathematical operation on top of it, and we can see the accuracy of the model and all, right?
Sunny Savita: So, sunny, sorry, aapke story, henna.
Sunny Savita: So I think this story could be, like, associated with everyone, right? I think everyone went through with this phase only, what I understood. So just keeping that thing in my mind, I returned this thing by a co-pilot, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So, what's… what we can do, guys? We can understand the vector of the, vector of the different different.
Sunny Savita: words, right? So, let's see if I'm going to be check the vector of the AI. So, AI word was there, inside the… so the AI word was there, tell me, guys, inside the story.
Sunny Savita: So the AI word is there, right? So if I'm going to be running, see what it is telling to me. KAI is not present. It is saying key AI is not present, okay? Now, if you will check with the stories, so you will not be able to find out AI anywhere. AI basically, see, here you can see AI is there, but it is a case sensitive.
Sunny Savita: I have written AI, okay? So this is, again, a one thing. Now, if I'm going to be checked with the AI, the capital one.
Sunny Savita: If I… if I'm going to write A, either capital one, theore I can write that.
Sunny Savita: They're saying AI is also there, okay? I think, guys, while the pre-processing and all, maybe the data is gone. Let me check out with the other word, or let me check with the AI. What could be the word over here? Okay, they're saying AI is also not present. Great. So, I'm going to check with the other data, okay? So, if you will check with the story second.
Sunny Savita: So, some other word also could be there. Okay, guys, let's check out the farmer. Here you can see this farmer. Okay, so I'm going to be check out with this farmer.
Sunny Savita: So, what I can do…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this minimum count is equal to 5, now maybe that could be the issue, right?
Sunny Savita: It is saying farmer is also not there. Farmer is also not present, how it could be?
Sunny Savita: Custom word-to-work matter, custom model.
Sunny Savita: We have trained now properly, right?
Sunny Savita: Customer Arjun is there, AI is not there, farmer is not there.
Sunny Savita: model, let's check out with the other words, what I'm doing, guys. This is the issue with the small data set, actually. So that's why Google has trained the model with a very huge dataset. Okay, if we are going to be pre-process that, we are going to be pre-processed the small data, na? So this could be the issue over there.
Sunny Savita: So, let's check out… The custom model with the model.
Sunny Savita: I'm giving a different word, okay, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: So, here I'm giving a different word.
Sunny Savita: Model is also not there.
Sunny Savita: So what is there, guys, then?
Sunny Savita: I think we'll have to remove that constraint, the 5-1, maybe that is causing an issue.
Sunny Savita: That could be the issue, guys.
Sunny Savita: Huh, guys, let me do one thing, let me remove that constraint from the model, okay? What I'm doing, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Give me, give me a moment, okay? Because this… we have a small data now, and I think it is, processing, right? It is over-processing.
Sunny Savita: It's getting over-processed, and because of that, maybe this thing is happening, right? So, let me do one thing.
Sunny Savita: Let me rerun it from scratch.
Sunny Savita: Or restarting it.
Sunny Savita: And restarting the kernel, and I'm running it from here only. Just give me a moment, guys. Okay, wait. Analyticit download all, this is perfect.
Sunny Savita: This is fine, file path is there.
Sunny Savita: then here is what you'll know. File, file, corpus is there, corpus.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is fine. Sort recognizer.
Sunny Savita: This is perfect, I got my story.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: If I'll check the length of the story…
Sunny Savita: How many sentences would be there?
Sunny Savita: So, we are having 44 centers. Guys, you… guys, did you understand from where we were getting this 44?
Sunny Savita: Did you understand from where we were getting this 44?
Sunny Savita: So this 44 weeks, basically, it's the length of our… all the sentences.
Sunny Savita: This is the length of our… all of the sentences, okay?
Sunny Savita: So this is our first sentence.
Sunny Savita: This is Killian. Now, guys, I'm removing this minimum word count, right? I'm just keeping it, like, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just, commenting this one right now.
Sunny Savita: Bye.
Sunny Savita: Because the data is very small, no? The data is very small. See, the data is very small, and because of that, it could be the issue, right?
Sunny Savita: So, if I'm running it now, custom model is fine, build vocabulary is perfect, this is perfect.
Sunny Savita: Okay, story is fine.
Sunny Savita: Four motor is going to be trained, this is perfect. Now, Arjun is coming, this is fine.
Sunny Savita: Length of the Arjun is 150. Now, let's see EI.
Sunny Savita: Okay, AI is not there, this is not there, formats…
Sunny Savita: Farmers is not there, still is not there, custom model engineer is also not there.
Sunny Savita: What could be possible?
Sunny Savita: How it could be. I removed that minimum count, no.
Sunny Savita: So, let me delete it, guys.
Sunny Savita: I don't know what is the by default value of it. Let me check out the by default value, okay? Wait, guys, I'm checking the by default value of it.
Sunny Savita: Oh, guys, by default, Apache, by default, it's 5 now.
Sunny Savita: By default, value is 5.
Sunny Savita: Minimum count karaoke then. What I can keep over here? Okay, let's do one thing. Minimum count, let's keep it 1, right?
Sunny Savita: By default, value is 5, no?
Sunny Savita: So, here, I can keep it 1.
Sunny Savita: Guys, I'm keeping it one only, right? Let's do what is happening now.
Sunny Savita: So, here… This is fine, this is perfect, story is great.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I'm running it again, custom model.
Sunny Savita: Better vocabulary, corpus count is fine.
Sunny Savita: Model… okay, I'm running it for the 10 epoch now.
Sunny Savita: I'm running it for the 10 epoch, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, it is running. See, guys, when I run it for the tenephook, this number has changed.
Sunny Savita: This number has changed, okay?
Sunny Savita: When I run it for the 10 epoch, this number has changed.
Sunny Savita: So the number of documents is processing throughout the epoch, and the number of unique, but maybe being processed throughout the epoch.
Sunny Savita: I think it is showing that number. So guys, this number is completely different. Don't rely on this number.
Sunny Savita: Don't rely on this number, okay? Great.
Sunny Savita: So, here I can see… let me check with Arjun.
Sunny Savita: This is coming.
Sunny Savita: This is fine. Now let's check out the other words.
Sunny Savita: I'm checking with the farmer, okay?
Sunny Savita: Guys, Abhi, Abhi, see, see, see, see, guys, now see, farmer is coming.
Sunny Savita: Farmer is coming.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, if I will check with the model, or let's check with the AI. So if I'm passing AI over here… Okay, now AI is also coming.
Sunny Savita: OEI is also coming. Srivali is asking, what you did, sir? Sir, I did nothing, I just, reduced the minimum count.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so guys, what I did, actually, I just removed the minimum count. So first, what is happening now? It was over-processing the data, because I had a small data set.
Sunny Savita: It was over-processing the data, because we had a small data cent.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Maybe some word was not coming 5 times. It was removing that word.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And even I remove… even I increase the…
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I think you lost me again, yes? Okay, fine. So I think, guys… okay, wait, wait, wait. You… I increased the epoch also, so the training is also happening quite faster.
Sunny Savita: The training is also happening quite faster. I'm sorry, the quite accurate, okay? So we can adjust the epoch size, basically, for the better result. We can adjust the epoch size for the better result, right? But yeah, the main, culprit is this one, minimum count 1. So we have a small data set, so we have to select it very carefully, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, guys, let's perform a few more operations. What I can do, I can check out over here.
Sunny Savita: Guys, I'm checking the most similar bird to this Arjun, okay? If I'm running this one now, let's see what I'll be getting.
Sunny Savita: So, book… okay, Explorer Better Lose Solving Through Model.
Sunny Savita: So, Arjun, actually, it is relating to these particular words. If I'm checking with the AI, okay, let's say if I'm checking with the AI, now let's see what it would be there, what it would be there. So, computer, decision, prediction, where improving, reverse, everything.
Sunny Savita: So, these are the similar words to the AI.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now guys, let's check with some other one. Let's see if I'm checking with the engineers. Okay, most similar word to this engineer. If I'm checking with the engineer, guys, so see.
Sunny Savita: programmers, okay? Losers.
Sunny Savita: So, engineers are the lost one, lost one. It's a loss, it's not a loser, actually.
Sunny Savita: So, these are the words, basically, which is being…
Sunny Savita: I think you can see the other word also. Curiosity. Curiosity would be there if the engineer is there.
Sunny Savita: If the engineer is there.
Sunny Savita: If the engineer is there, the curiosity would be there, right? So the curiosity would be there, I think this is fine. Now, if I'm going to be checked with the other one, let's say if I'm going to be checked with the data.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, this is the word related to the data. Now, tell me, guys, tell me, if I'm going to be Czech, right, if I'm going to be passed over here.
Sunny Savita: Arjun, engineer, Programming Farber. Now, which word might not be matched according to our story, according to our data?
Sunny Savita: Arjun engineer programming farmers.
Sunny Savita: Farmer, right? Let's check it out, this one.
Sunny Savita: Correct. Model achaimer, huh? My model is good, right?
Sunny Savita: Right? So, Arjun, basically, engineer hai, Arjun programmer hai, like in farmer nahi, right? Arjun is not a farmer. Okay, let's check out with a different one.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, which is not going to be matched? Data, model, system, river?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me.
Sunny Savita: The river, guys. Oh, it is saying model.
Sunny Savita: Data model system river. It is saying model. I think, again, we'll have to think about the data and all. We'll have to gather the more data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, one more, one more, one more, guys, okay? So, this one. Now, tell me, guys, weather, crop, farmer technology.
Sunny Savita: technology, right?
Sunny Savita: If my model is good now, it will…
Sunny Savita: like, put it correctly. Means it will find out the odd one from here, right?
Sunny Savita: So… Technology is not going to be matched.
Sunny Savita: Oh, it is saying farmer.
Sunny Savita: This time also, it's like, what it is doing, guys.
Sunny Savita: It's bluffing to us. Because, see, actually our data is very less, no?
Sunny Savita: Our data is very less, and that is impacting to the training.
Sunny Savita: Right? So we'll have to keep the more data for that.
Sunny Savita: You know Google News?
Sunny Savita: Google actually trained on their entire news data.
Sunny Savita: And there was, like, millions of articles.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, always, always, guys, see, always, if we're talking about… if we're talking about this neural network.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about, basically, these LLMs, right?
Sunny Savita: So this is a data-hungry, guys.
Sunny Savita: This is a data-hungry, okay? Now, guys, tell me, can I check the similarity between the different, different words? Similarity between the AI and technology?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, what would be the tech… what would be the similarity? Similarity would be high or low.
Sunny Savita: Let's see.
Sunny Savita: I'm getting in minus. I'm getting in minus. Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, minus 1 to plus 1. It is not even showing 0, minus… So, see, guys, our model is having some issue at some places, where I have to keep more data, maybe for the better training. Okay, more box and all, for the better training. Now, if I'm going to be checking the accuracy, let's say between the
Sunny Savita: Arjun an engineer, right? So, according to our story, Arjun was the engineer.
Sunny Savita: According to the… according to… according to our story, Arjun was the engineer.
Sunny Savita: Yes, AI engineer, right? He was an AI engineer, right? So see.
Sunny Savita: It is showing minus, right? So guys, see, the value is coming in minus, maybe, right? Why it is giving me like this? Because maybe the model is not that much trained as of now. We'll have to train this model on the huge amount of data for the several number of epoch, okay? So maybe this accuracy might be increased.
Sunny Savita: maybe this accuracy might be increased. So what you can do, guys, here I can give you one task.
Sunny Savita: Add more data.
Sunny Savita: train.
Sunny Savita: for Moripot.
Sunny Savita: N… Check it out.
Sunny Savita: Accuracy.
Sunny Savita: of model.
Sunny Savita: Right? Or I would say… Check it out.
Sunny Savita: embedding.
Sunny Savita: Check the embedding.
Sunny Savita: dimension, also.
Sunny Savita: Okay. In short, a little bit.
Sunny Savita: All luck.
Sunny Savita: parameter. Okay, so guys, will you do this thing? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Will you do this thing with respect to this particular model?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you understood everything, right? So, this week I'm not giving you any assignment. I will give you the assignment now, after the transformer module.
Sunny Savita: After the transformer module, I will give you the assignment. So here, basically, for this particular week, you have to complete the previous assignment. There, you have… you can add the word to back, or else you can take this thing as assignment, okay? So this is going to be assignment for this particular week.
Sunny Savita: Clear, guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, can we use Google pre-trained corpus, I think, to another corpus? No, that corpus is very huge, actually. You cannot do that, right?
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, how was the session? Did you like it? Did you understand it? Did you understand the entire embedding concept? Means the entire, basically here and there and all. And, the custom training part is also clear. Now, guys, we are entering into the transformer world, now we are entering into the SOTA world.
Sunny Savita: Okay? S-O-T-A, Transformer World. So, our first module is complete. Now, in the next class, guys, I will show you the embedding with the SOTA model, and we'll explore the transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Pranesh thinks too slow. Okay, Pran, I will teach you fast, okay? From next class, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: I will already prepare the… this, I will already prepare the solution and all, and we'll go a little faster, guys. Guys, after 4 to 5 classes, no, don't worry, you will, like, see some speed and all. Once we'll move to the…
Sunny Savita: Once we'll move to the fine-tuning and all. Okay, so this thing is going to be reversed. We'll more focus over the practical, less focus over the theory.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yes, guys, we are done for today. So, fine, guys, I hope you liked this session. Now, in the next class, guys, we are going to be start with the soda, we are going to be start with the
Sunny Savita: France?
Sunny Savita: former, okay? And guys, after completing this module, the next module, which is a SOTA technique for the embedding of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: We'll directly jump through the fine-tuning part, how we can fine-tune those different, different LLM, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. Fine, thank you guys, thank you for joining the session. If you have… if you don't have any doubt, be here. If you have any doubt, sorry, if you have any doubt, be here. If you don't have any doubt, you can drop the session, okay? I'm giving you this entire code and all everything, I'm just updating it over the GitHub. Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm adding it, git add dot, get commit hyphen M.
Sunny Savita: Code update, and git push.
Sunny Savita: Okay, sure.
Sunny Savita: Sure, Goyle.
Sunny Savita: Fine, so guys, I've given you this code, please check out this code over the GitHub, I already pushed it over there, just refresh your GitHub, you will get it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Here is the entire code, guys, this.
Sunny Savita: So, custom training, and
Sunny Savita: Here is basically the classical pre-trained model. Okay, both is there. You can practice with both now.
Sunny Savita: Point?
Sunny Savita: How many sessions will be required to complete the theory for the transformer? I think 3 to 4 sessions.
Sunny Savita: Within that, we are going to be complete, because your base is already ready now. Now it won't take much time, okay? So I will already prepare some pre-written notes and all. With that, the speed would be a little faster, okay, in terms of explanation. Got it, Raj?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, if your doubt couldn't answer in the… during the, like, session, so don't worry, now I'm here for taking a doubt. If you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me, right? Now, where to submit the assignment? I already shared the link, I can show you that.
Sunny Savita: So, if you will… Just a second, let me check with my Google form.
Sunny Savita: I think I didn't mention that… Wait, guys.
Sunny Savita: Somewhere, basically, I cap that…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this is the form, guys. This is a Google form. Now, what I'm doing, I'm just going to…
Sunny Savita: keep it inside the same… see, if you will look into the Notion one now, inside the Notion note, I capped that.
Sunny Savita: In the second class itself.
Sunny Savita: Second class, yeah, this one.
Sunny Savita: So inside the Notion notes, I have mentioned all the links, course access, resource guide, and all. So inside the same one, basically, I'm updating it, right? I will be updating inside the same one, but yeah, you can keep this link for the submission of the assignment.
Sunny Savita: And I will provide you the solution of the first assignment from the, in, sorry, in tomorrow… sorry, tomorrow I will provide you the solution of the assignment, okay? I will upload it directly over the dashboard, you can directly take it from there. Even I will inform you in the committee chat also. Okay?
Sunny Savita: It is not required, the low-level PyTorch is not required, actually. But yeah, we'll take a look over the hugging Face, right? I'll deep dive into that there.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, GoPilot, could be. The training is different. The training is dynamic, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's not a… it's not basically, see, it's not a… that a hard-coded thing. If I'm writing 2 plus 2, I will get 4. If you're writing 2 plus 2, you will also get 4. It's a dynamic thing.
Sunny Savita: So, in your case, the weight could be something else. In my case, the weight could be something else. So, maybe your model could be better than me. Some… okay?
Sunny Savita: You have to understand that part.
Sunny Savita: Yes, I'm evaluating the assignment, okay? So that's why I'm saying I required one more day. Tomorrow, I will provide the solution of the assignment.
Sunny Savita: And I will keep the Mega Challenge, where I will invite you two all to represent your assignment. So, I will announce that Mega Challenge, guys. So, after completing the fine-tuning, I will keep one Mega Challenge for the end-to-end project, related to the fine-tuning, and I will invite to all of you
Sunny Savita: To represent your solution, and then I will distribute the prize, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Fine guys, thank you, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Until thank you, bye guys, take care. If you have doubt, don't, leave the session. I'll start with the doubt session in 5 minutes. Thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with the doubt session.
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, you can raise the hand.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Dipti, what's your doubt?
Deepti: So, we just actually trained the model, and we actually tried to get the similarity between the words, and trying to see which word doesn't match to the list. So, in the meanwhile, I mean, like, in the same way, is there any other operation where we can see the next word content, like, like, as in the CBO, we are trying to
Deepti: give the two words and trying to get the target. We get the context and giving… getting the target. So how can we see that? How can we verify that?
Sunny Savita: No, that… here we are using a pre-trained… sorry, here we are using that, pre-built library in a Genesim.
Sunny Savita: Right? So we'll have to go according to that only. If they have given any method, any feature over there, to, like, check out the context, or…
Sunny Savita: something, then only we can check. Otherwise, we cannot. But, see, this is a black box thing inside this neural network. Even if you are going to be write a code from scratch, right, in your neural network and all, still, you will not be able to get that, how this thing is happening, and
Sunny Savita: What is a context, target, and all, with respect to each and every iteration, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I think in GenSIM library, it is not possible.
Sunny Savita: To get that.
Deepti: Okay, okay. So, I mean, even the data is ours, so as we are using the Gensim model, we might not be able to get the same context what we have in our data.
Deepti: Is that correct way of understanding?
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, no. What you are asking, can you please come again, miss? Maybe I missed your few words.
Deepti: Okay, so, oh, no, so it's kind of like, now we have built the model.
Deepti: Right? Why did we do that? We actually, trying to see, can we get the target word based on the context?
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, that is a training only. Our final goal, basically, just a prediction to just to get an embedding, that's it.
Deepti: Okay, okay, so it's, the embedding is nothing about the similarity, finding the words between the words, and whether it is matching or not, okay. Okay, now, now…
Sunny Savita: basically, embedding is an intermediate output of the header layer. Okay.
Sunny Savita: That similarity and all, we are doing with a different method, with a cosine similarity and all. Maybe internal that calculation have been written while we are calling the similarity such and all, okay?
Deepti: Okay, yeah, now got it.
Deepti: Yeah, I think, that's the kind of, like, I have, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, surely. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Arjit, what's your doubt?
ARIJIT MITRA: Yeah, hi sir, hope you're doing good. So, I just have two doubts to, correct my understanding. First is that, in the custom model, the minimum count parameter, that is essentially used to filter out noise and treat the overfitting, right?
ARIJIT MITRA: No, that is a question.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
ARIJIT MITRA: Correct, right. And the second thing is, suppose our vocabulary size is 10,000, we have 10,000 unique words, and we keep on increasing the dimension of the word embeddings to, let's say, 1,000. So, in that case, they won't be sparse, they will contain dual numbers, but they might contain random noise, right, rather than meaningful information.
ARIJIT MITRA: And then in the n-dimensional hyperspace, all words will become likely equidistant from each other. And in that case, cosine similarity logic will break, right? If we keep on increasing the dimension.
Sunny Savita: You can increase the dimension, but again, higher 1000 dimension, 5-1500 dimension, actually, that works well in the transformer architecture, not in the neural network one, basically.
ARIJIT MITRA: So that is the question. If the vocabulary size is very less, and we are keeping on increasing the dimension, then much of those data points will not be meaningful information, and the cosine similarity logic will be it, right?
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: It might impact the result, definitely, sir. If the dimension is going to be in case the feature is not important, or maybe features are coming, like, more zero towards, like, near to zero, then, yeah, again, it will impact to the end result, correct?
ARIJIT MITRA: Correct, okay, okay. And this, that is not a model parameter, the embedding dimension, that is a hyperparameter, right, which we can determine using grid search or something like that.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct. Means you will have to play, like, you will have to use a different permutation and combination, okay?
ARIJIT MITRA: Got it, got it, okay. Got it. That's cool. Thank you so much, sir.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Arjith is done now.
Sunny Savita: Guys, if you are done with your doubt, you can lower the hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Jyoti, please go ahead with the doubt.
Jyoti Gupta: So, sir, it's not related to today's session. Today is my second class, basically, and I haven't downloaded the app on which you are doing the coding. So, basically, I just want to ask whether I can cope up with the coming sessions.
Sunny Savita: in life.
Jyoti Gupta: I'm trying to complete prerequisites first, already, so I hope I'll cover all the sessions and prequisites in the coming week. So, will I manage with your recordings? Like, this app downloaded.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jyoti Gupta: I think bye.
Sunny Savita: You can, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, what you can do… first, basically, you can check out the first and second session. There, we have done all the setup and all, okay?
Jyoti Gupta: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And, along with that, if you have a time in weekdays, you can go through with a prerequisite also.
Jyoti Gupta: Have a complete show.
Jyoti Gupta: Okay.
Jyoti Gupta: Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear now, Jyoti?
Jyoti Gupta: Ew.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Krishna, what's your doubt? Please go ahead with your doubt.
Krishna: Can you hear me, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear you. Please go ahead.
Krishna: Yeah. Basically, my doubt is with respect to the handwritten notes. Can you open the notepad, please?
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Krishna: Oh, sorry. I think I will go with the other note first, so…
Krishna: In this IPNB file, when we modified… when we changed the epoch value from 5 to 10 with our customized model.
Krishna: So, we got a different, vocabulary count rate. Initially, it was somewhere 2,600, and later it was 3,000-something.
Krishna: And the input data is safe, like, story 1 and Story 2.
Krishna: How will the vocabulary change… changing with Apple?
Krishna: I didn't understand that. Vocabulary should be constant, because input is same in both the scenarios. And input is same, vocabulary should be constant with a unique.
Sunny Savita: No, no, actually, see, that's what I was saying, no.
Sunny Savita: This number, basically, it's not that vocabulary, basically, which we talk, right? The vocabulary, basically, means how many words is being processed throughout the training. I think it is showing that particular number.
Sunny Savita: Because when I was checking with this particular value, what I get, what I get, basically, when I call the training.
Sunny Savita: Actually, I was not able to find out the correct meaning of it.
Sunny Savita: there was very shallow explanation inside the Gensim, this, inside the GenSim documentation regarding this particular thing. They just mentioned, during the training, whatever, vocabulary, and, whatever, like, document is being processed, it is showing that, number over here. That's it.
Krishna: I think I'm not referring to this, I'm referring to the,
Krishna: Can you check the length, the previous, yeah, before penalty?
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, see, this is not a vocabulary, actually. This is not that length. That is what I'm saying, during the training, during the process, the tan epoch, how many… how much sentences a word is being processed, I think it is showing that count.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Krishna: Oh, okay, maybe I'm confused with your story.
Sunny Savita: Anyway, see, anyway, it is not important for us. This is not at all important. This number is not important.
Sunny Savita: This is all the number are important to us, this window size, minimum count, vector size, these are the important numbers.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Let it be, because automatically this is being generated while we are training.
Sunny Savita: Right? Only this number in our hand, this epox, this story means our data, okay? This window size, this minimum count, this vector size, so you just have to play with this number. Don't worry about this number, okay?
Krishna: Yeah, maybe I'm confused with your statement over there. You have written 2610 unique quotes, then I thought it is vocabulary.
Krishna: Yeah, maybe I misunderstood that.
Krishna: Fuck yeah.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, okay.
Sunny Savita: Krishna. Now got it, right?
Krishna: Yeah, yeah, now I got it. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Krishna: That's the one thing I just wanted to.
Sunny Savita: Thanks.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next doubt is Krishna istun.
Sunny Savita: Now, Sunil, what's your doubt? Sunil, or…
Sunny Savita: Anil, anyone is there? Guys, please go ahead.
sunil Singh: Yeah, I'm…
anilp: behind.
anilp: Hello.
anilp: Can you hear me, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear you, sir.
anilp: Sunny, yeah, after this training the model, right, we get the encodings out of that vectors, right? So, how do we know the vector, whatever we get, is the right vectors? Is there any way to evaluate it with the word, whatever we have passed?
Sunny Savita: After this training model.
Sunny Savita: we get the encoding out of that vector. Sorry, can you please come again? Anita?
anilp: After we train this model.
anilp: Right? So, we will be trying to get this word vector, right, WV.
anilp: So, after this, we get, we get the vector, the vector, whatever dimension we have mentioned, right? So, how do we know that, the vector is the right vector which is getting generated out of the model? How do we evaluate that?
Sunny Savita: The right vector is being generated.
Sunny Savita: It means you are saying the evaluation of this vector, is it?
anilp: Yes, the output. How do I know this output is a right output?
Sunny Savita: Actually, for that, we'll… what we can do, see, there is, like, not a straightforward way.
Sunny Savita: Whether we can say, like, this is the correct vector, or that is a wrong vector. If we're talking about the sentence vector, for that, basically, we have empty benchmark. With that, we can evaluate it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
anilp: Let's say…
Sunny Savita: I can show you that, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So… For embedding, actually, whatever embedding is being generated, for the LLM-related embedding, we have this MTEB benchmark.
Sunny Savita: Okay, with that, actually, we can evaluate which vector is correct, which vector is not correct, means, what is the accuracy of our generated vector? On some parameter, we can do that.
Sunny Savita: I can show you with that code, I kept it. Even I will teach you in your class, maybe in the next… next or next to next class, see?
Sunny Savita: Here is the one. Mteb… Sort of… Classical or encoded keyword similarity.
Sunny Savita: Actually, I kept somewhere that a classical, sort of text.
Sunny Savita: Embedding evaluation, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, the code, basically, I didn't… still, I didn't keep that, maybe let me check.
Sunny Savita: sort of embedding classical. Okay, I'll teach you that. So, regarding those embedding, actually, we can check that with the MTEB benchmark. But this embedding, basically, I'm not sure. So, whatever is being generated, we can just perform the arithmetic operation.
Sunny Savita: Or, based on the data only, we can check, means whatever thematic operation we are performing, it is giving a correct answer or not. That's it, okay? If I will check any benchmark is there or not, any inbuilt library is there or not for this particular vector, okay?
Sunny Savita: Because for the sentence embedding, I know, we have this MTEV, even you can check that. If you will search, no, if you will directly write over here.
Sunny Savita: This MTEB benchmark. It's a very famous benchmark, actually, for the embedding. So, the full form of it is called… let me show you that…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, the full form of this MTEB is called, I think, Massive Text Embedding Benchmark. Yeah, Massive Text Embedding Benchmark, this one.
Sunny Savita: So there is, like, certain metrics we have to evaluate the embedding model.
anilp: Okay.
anilp: And my second question is, like, we are using the softmax, right? So, what happens if I don't use the softmax?
anilp: Will there be changes.
Sunny Savita: No, we'll have to use a softmax only. Now, if we want to use that, how you will get the prediction loss and all, the training will not be possible, actually.
anilp: Okay.
sunil Singh: Sally, I have one basic question. That question is, like, we did a custom model, hello?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes. Wait, Anil, your doubt is done, right, Anil?
anilp: Okay, I'll go through the softmax, I'm not fully aware of this, how… what it is used and where it is used. I'll go through this, and if…
Sunny Savita: what you can do, Anil, you can check out the prerequisites. I think inside that, we have explained the softmax and all, because it is a part of the neural network training, okay?
anilp: Sure, sure, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
anilp: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you. Yeah, Sunit, please go ahead.
sunil Singh: Yeah. So, I have that basic doubt, and the doubt is, like, we are, just now we did with the custom model, training, right? So, may I know which, which is the model we are, we are… we trained in this?
sunil Singh: Like, do we have to define any model name, particularly? Or we can… or…
sunil Singh: Just we can say, like, in this code, just to you have mentioned that custom model, and then, we perform the training and all, so is that how… how that.
Sunny Savita: No, you can give any name to the model, it's up to you, right?
Sunny Savita: You can write any custom name to the model.
sunil Singh: So, do we have to define any more model also?
Sunny Savita: Sorry, do we have defined any?
sunil Singh: Any model name?
Sunny Savita: No, that's what I'm saying, no? You can write any custom name over there.
Sunny Savita: Okay. See, what is happening over here? We are not training the neural network from scratch.
sunil Singh: Yes.
Sunny Savita: We are not training the neural network from scratch over here. Whenever we train the neural network from scratch, we save that model.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, tell me. In the form of PyTorch Tensor, TensorFlow Tensor, H5 file, binary file, we save that model, yes or no. So, that file is having any specific name, no, right? We can write any custom name over there. So, you can give any custom name to your model. Got it?
sunil Singh: Oh.
Sunny Savita: Yep.
sunil Singh: Yeah, I'm clear.
Sunny Savita: There is no rule for that, Sunil. You can write anything.
sunil Singh: Okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so Sunil is done, Anil is also done.
Sunny Savita: And now the next out is the… Mohan Kumar, Arachna… Or…
Sunny Savita: Shobik, anyone is there, guys, please go ahead.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: I am here.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Obik, what's your doubt?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, it's not about just a clarification. If you just go back to your, the, the VS Code, where after the training, the number of sentences and vocabulary size has given.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, just clarifying.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, just a second, I can open that way.
Sunny Savita: Which one you are asking?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: So, after just, just after the training, you have outputted that,
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, basically, just tell me if I am right or wrong. So, previously, when you have run this model, you have considered minimum count was 5. Because of the small data size, many words are not… are omitted by the model, right? Now, then we have got here 119 as the number of
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: sentence that con to the model, that means not the manual number of sentence, that the what-to-week has taken. You have clarified that, that is fine. And 2610 was the number of… the size of the vocabulary. Now, when you have reduced the minimum count to 1,
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Then what happened? The vocabulary size has increased to 5220, is my understanding correct?
Sunny Savita: No, no, Cersei, again, I'm saying don't go with these particular sentences and words, right? It is representing something else after the training of the model, which is not required to us at all.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: That's fine. Then how I will understand, like, for example, if I want to know the vocabulary size, simple.
Sunny Savita: If you won'
Sunny Savita: No, the vocabulary size, then there is a different parameter for that. Okay, let me show you that parameter.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh, okay.
Sunny Savita: For that, what you have to do, you have to run the different parameter. Let me give you that parameter. Wait, okay?
Sunny Savita: Oh, where is that parameter?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, sir, I'm giving you that parameter, okay?
Sunny Savita: Build vocabulary, yes. So, see, this is our custom model.
Sunny Savita: We have created a custom model over here. We have built the vocabulary. Till here, everything is fine.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Everything is fine.
Sunny Savita: Now, on top of this custom model, you can run so many functions. See, you can call so many parameter and function.
Sunny Savita: So this, this purple one is a function, and this blue one is a parameter.
Sunny Savita: So inside of… among all this function and parameter, there would be one function, I think the name is basically index2Key.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Index to key.
Sunny Savita: Index to key, let me run it, index to key.
Sunny Savita: Index? Okay, sorry. On top of the… WB actually will have to be called that.
Sunny Savita: So, wb.index2Key.
Sunny Savita: Huh, this one. So once you will execute it now, you will get those vocabulary. See, this is the vocabulary, the entire vocabulary.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Can you just put a lane of that size? I want to know the size.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: What is the bubble?
Sunny Savita: You can check the size, also. Just check the length.
Sunny Savita: Here is the length… what is the length? 257.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: 257 is the vocabulary size.
Sunny Savita: Huh, this one.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Perfect.
Sunny Savita: Okay. You can check out this particular parameter.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Got it. Another question I was asking during the, during your live class, probably, my, query was not explicit. Again, I'm telling it. And, when you were discussing, I was just researching in the chat GPT, I also tell them what ChatGPT is saying. So, basically, suppose I have a small data, like this story 1 and Story 2. Now, these small data, suppose, have some small
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: specific domain knowledge, right? I know that we will learn RAG afterwards, that's fine. Now.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Now, suppose there are very common words what the pre-trained model already is having. So, suppose if the project reminders, okay, I don't have that ecosystem which can train over 3 billion data, that's fine. If I, like, for example, if I want, can I, like, just load the pre-trained weights, and then whatever the overlapped word.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: then I can use the pretend vector, and then, whatever the new words that I can use from my domain data, like the small data. So, is… I mean, StratGPT saying it is possible? What is your thought, how it is done in industry?
Sunny Savita: You can do it, no? See, the LoRa is completely based on this concept only, no? Here you are talking about the fine-tuning of the model, right?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Here I'm talking about the what to wake, use the pre-trained model for the common words.
Sunny Savita: We cannot scale that… word-to-back, we cannot scale that much, actually.
Sunny Savita: We don't use Word2Bag for this kind of problem statement. We use the real LM-based model, okay?
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: Oh, okay, okay, okay. And, on the third thing, just one request is that, so, like, for example, now, from tomorrow… from, like, for example, from the next class, we'll be actually jumping into the main, scope of the… of this course, right? So, please maintain this space, because that is the thing we are here for. Yes, you have very well trained us with the basic NLPs and all.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: But to maintain the same space there as well.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, sure, sure, don't worry about that, okay? We'll go with that.
Sauvik Chattopadhyay: That is the main focus of our discourse. Thank you, Sunit. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you, sir, thank you.
Mohankumar S K: Go ahead.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Tobic is done. Guys, once you are done with your doubt, please lower the hand, okay? Because I get confused sometimes. So please lower the hand, okay?
Mohankumar S K: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Rachana, Mohan, anyone is there, please go ahead.
Mohankumar S K: Yeah, nice, let me ask Smith out.
Mohankumar S K: So, my doubt is, like, how the skipgram is better than SIBO, because in SIBO, I can see that
Mohankumar S K: So, the context, based on the context, we are providing the output. Just like the, just like how the LLM, do, does that, based on the context, you will predict the next word. Just like that only, we are… it is somewhat similar to the SIBO, somewhat similar to the how the LLM operates now.
Mohankumar S K: So, in that case, SIBO should be the better thing than Skipdrum, right? How is saying reverse?
Mohankumar S K: Can you clarify that?
Sunny Savita: Mon, your voice is not very clear, guys. It is for me only, or for everyone.
Sunny Savita: Can you speak a little clearer, Mohan?
Mohankumar S K: Hello? You can be able to hear me right now?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, now I can hear you. Please go ahead.
Mohankumar S K: Yes, sir. Yes, Sunny. So, my question was, how SIBO is not better than Skip Gam? You mentioned skipgram is better than SIBO, but SIBO operates based on the context. It will, based on the context only, it will predict the output. In that case, SIBO should be the better thing than Skip Gam, right?
Sunny Savita: No, no, actually, now, what was there in the skip gram and the CBO, I think I explained you with this example also, see?
Sunny Savita: Let me show you that example.
Sunny Savita: Huh, this one.
Sunny Savita: Let's say here I written, my name is Sunny, AI is my favorite subject, right? So this is a sentence. Now, for… I have prepared the seaboard-based data, right? So this is the CBOT-based data. Context is there, and the target is there.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, based on this particular context, I'm trying to search the sunny. Okay, I'm… sorry, I'm trying to predict the sunny, okay? So, this will be my training line, this will be the training input. This is the training input, and this is the training output.
Sunny Savita: Now, on the other hand, in the ski program, what is there? So, in the context, we have this word, sunny, which is associated with this three targets. Name, AI, name is an AI.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. Now, over here, if you will see, so, based on this name, ASE AIS, we are trying to predict this sunny. I mean, this entire context, this entire context, basically, knows about the sunny.
Sunny Savita: Right? But just look over here in this both example, where, basically, we have a correct mapping. Here, we have a single loss, right? Single loss, basically. But here, basically, we have three loss.
Sunny Savita: for name is different, ease is different, sunny AI is different, right? And Sunny is trying to find out a laws with respect to each and every word. So here, basically, the context is much stronger than this one. This one.
Mohankumar S K: So, you're trying to say that, since the output, is 3, like, multiple things, so the weight will be adjusted accordingly for each and everything, so that's why the.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct, right. Because here, the three learning is there, for name, for Ace, and for Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, for AI, okay?
Mohankumar S K: In that case, the learnable parameters will be more in Skipgram than SIBO, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, okay, fine. My second thought is, like, how this, window size will impact the created embeddings? Because I remember you once said…
Sunny Savita: Window size bigger means the more context.
Mohankumar S K: Yeah, in Word, yeah, yeah, because in previous example, you said Word2VEC provides static embeddings. Like, you are.
Sunny Savita: That'll give.
Mohankumar S K: examples, like some bank, based on the sentence, it won't differ. For each and everything, like, some bank means money bank, and river bank, you said, but in both the sentences, bank word will give the same embeddings.
Mohankumar S K: Because it won't, refer the context on that, and it is a static embedding. So then, but here in this word to work, we are referring the context, right? Then, how are we mentioning it as a static embedding? We are just referring the context also.
Sunny Savita: We are static embedding, because once we have trainer model, now it will be throughout the, that model basically will be throughout the implementation. I mean, let's say we have trainer model, this custom model.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, anywhere we are using that model for that Arjun word, it is going to be generated, same kind of embedding.
Sunny Savita: Understood what I'm saying.
Sunny Savita: Right? It learns from the data.
Sunny Savita: Whatever it understood from the data regarding the Arjun, Right? Now, it's time to…
Sunny Savita: generator embedding, according to that. But actually, in self-attention, the thing is different. In self-attention, basically, what we do, we try to find out, basically, which word is a good one inside the given sentence regarding the other word.
Sunny Savita: So, let me explain that thing.
Sunny Savita: I can explain that part.
Sunny Savita: Let's say here I return one sentence.
Sunny Savita: A cat… is sitting.
Sunny Savita: Okay, a cat is sitting.
Sunny Savita: or the bank.
Sunny Savita: Riverbank.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So this is the sentence, basically.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I am processing this sentence from the neural network.
Sunny Savita: And I'm passing this sentence from the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Both are very different, actually.
Sunny Savita: Because in neural network, basically, we are trying to learn from those hidden layers.
Sunny Savita: From those weights only, this one.
Sunny Savita: We have trained the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: We have trained the model. Now, whatever output we'll get based on this model.
Sunny Savita: We'll get that. But if we're talking about a transformer, so the beauty of the transformer is this self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Now, what does self-attention is do, actually?
Sunny Savita: The self-attention is try to preserve the meaning
Sunny Savita: of the word within a sentence. It understands this cat actually
Sunny Savita: Okay, who is sitting? This cat is sitting.
Sunny Savita: Where it is sitting.
Sunny Savita: beside the river it is sitting. Which bank it is? It is a river bank. So, inside the transformer, using the self-attention mechanism, we can preserve this context.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Mohankumar S K: Oof.
Sunny Savita: And because of that, basically, we can capture the dynamicly of the data.
Sunny Savita: We can dynamically capture the… we can dynamically capture the essence of the, like, any word, any sentence and all. Because here, the learning is the aesthetic.
Sunny Savita: We are just relying over these hidden layers, but here it is not like that. Here, the self-attention concept is different than this hidden layer.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, so if I understand correctly, the self-attention will do… will do better on the non-training data. After the training data, for giving input.
Sunny Savita: But it has required a huge data also. See, if I will show you this attention all-you-need paper.
Sunny Savita: See, this is a research paper.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now just check out… just open this research paper.
Sunny Savita: And just scroll down till last of it.
Sunny Savita: So, see, they have given you one example. Over here, maybe. See, this is the example. Can you see this example?
Mohankumar S K: Yes.
Sunny Savita: So they are writing over here, what they are writing.
Sunny Savita: It is in this spirit that a majority of American government have passed new laws since 2009 making the immigration registration or voting process more difficult, right? So making, this making word, it is related to which other words inside the same given sentence.
Mohankumar S K: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so they're trying to find out that using this attention mechanism, and because of that, the dynamic… the dynamic, basically, the dynamic essence, capture kersaktia now, right? Regarding whatever sentence. It is very powerful inside the attention.
Sunny Savita: So, neural networks are only depending on the hidden layers to catch the, to catch that context, and it is going to be static, whatever is going to be learned from the data, and it, again, it is a… the bigger data is a bottleneck for that. We cannot train that particular model over the bigger data, use data, but it is not same for the attention. Because, first of all, we are training this particular model in the parallel data, okay? Parallelly, we are passing the data.
Sunny Savita: With the positional encoding, we are handling the position of the data. And then.
Sunny Savita: This attention mechanism is, like, it's a very amazing thing, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, to summarize…
Sunny Savita: Deference.
Mohankumar S K: Yeah, so this, neural network thing will be limited to only the training data. So after that, what are the inputs we give? It will provide the same, same embedding thing.
Sunny Savita: Alright.
Mohankumar S K: for the attention mechanism, regardless of the training data, if you give the same input, but it will, same word in the different context, it will understand that, and the self-attention will give different embeddings accordingly, correct?
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, okay, thank you. Just one more last thought. Like, like, how those rare words will be, tackled based on the minimum count parameter? Because, yeah, since, like, in skip them, you have mentioned, like, rare words will be handled better than skip them.
Sunny Savita: And what will be skips in that case? If you're going to be, like, keep any… if you're going to be keep minimum count, like, little high, then it will be skipped, sir.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, so then if the… after the training, if that particular word comes as an input for the embedding, it'll be considered as an out-of-factor vocabulary, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, got it.
Mohankumar S K: OA 1.0 encoding will be all zeros that vector, input vector.
Sunny Savita: Correct, good.
Mohankumar S K: Okay, okay. Yes, Sunny, thank you, thank you very much for clarifying my doubts.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, thank you, thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Rachshno, please go ahead with the dog.
Rachana: Yeah, hi Sunil, this is Ganesh Rajna here.
Rachana: Newspaw.
Sunny Savita: as well.
Rachana: So…
Rachana: So, Sunny, like, you… thanks for this exam, actually, the custom model example, so that helped, understand the theory, like, what you're teaching with the skipgram and, bag of… continuous bag of words.
Rachana: So, in this example and the handwritten notes, you had mentioned the vector size and the,
Rachana: hidden parameter, right? So, how do we compare that to the custom model values that you provided, the min count and…
Rachana: Would you be able to compare that with the, handwritten note and the example, custom model which.
Sunny Savita: The minimum count is not there, no? Minimum count means what, sir? The definition of the minimum.
Rachana: The word code.
Sunny Savita: Pretty simple.
Rachana: The hidden parameter on the word code.
Sunny Savita: Hidden parameter… No, hidden parameter of when I said hidden parameter of word count.
Rachana: No, the, if you… if you can just share your screen, and if you can go to the, handwritten notes where you took the 5 cross 3 or 3 cross 5 metric, right?
Sunny Savita: Oh, wait, I'm…
Rachana: 8 important notes, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Oh, this is the one.
Rachana: So, in this follower form.
Rachana: And we have this 5 plus 3, so we have taken this, 3 as our,
Rachana: count, right? So here, if we compare that to the current, model that you… the custom model which you took, so what is the value we are passing here for the metric?
Rachana: The weight matrix.
Rachana: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: This… no, not weight matrix, I'm just giving this embedding size only, this one, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay. This is one and only parameter which we are passing over there, from here.
Rachana: from here.
Sunny Savita: In the
Sunny Savita: 150, actually? Yeah, 150, only this size, that's it.
Rachana: This size, okay. And, in the example, since we didn't get the,
Rachana: the farmers or anything, right? So, AI value was not coming up, or we're having a lower, rate. So, is that not considered as an, rare word or something in the example, in the story that we provided?
Sunny Savita: No, that is… is not being considered that. Actually, we have put the higher value of that minimum count now, because of that, those waterways is being removed, actually.
Rachana: removed. Okay, it's not even being considered in the, process, okay.
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Rachna is done. Now, the next is the Vijay.
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, Bijab, please go ahead.
Sunny Savita: Bharti…
Vijay Duba: Hi, Sunny. Because… Hello.
Sunny Savita: VJ.
Vijay Duba: I see. So, actually, my doubt is regarding the skip program. So, could you go to the slide in the last scene, the last… in the last page of the PDF?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure.
Vijay Duba: Yeah, last mesh… yeah, actually, like, when we were explaining that, firstly, there are two contexts, like a follow or fur, right?
Sunny Savita: towards the context.
Vijay Duba: So, in the model, for Sunny, does it create the two embeddings? Two different embeddings in the training?
Sunny Savita: So only one embedding, no? We just have one embedding over here, this one.
Vijay Duba: We are training twice, right? Mentioned that.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, training twice, but the embedding would be single one only, no? This one, the best one, basically.
Sunny Savita: Training twice means what? See? The training twice means first it will train for this, then again it will train for this. No, it's not like that. Whatever framework and all we have, PyTouch and all, in that, basically, we pass the data in a batches, or we pass the data, this, follow word and forward, all together, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the training will not be happen sequentially. In one single shot only, it will, do it for the follow and for 4 also, with respect to this Sunny, okay? Those framework is capable to handle that. Regarding this follow and for, basically, it will provide you this embedding, okay?
Vijay Duba: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: Hello. Okay, Vijay is done. Now, Baharti, what's your doubt?
Bharathi K: Firstly, I would like to thank you for the sessions, which are really very…
Sunny Savita: Bharth, your voice is very low, I cannot hear anything. Please speak loudly.
Sunny Savita: Hello?
Bharathi K: Able to hear me?
Sunny Savita: No, it's still very low. Guys, for everyone, right?
Bharathi K: Right.
Vikas Verma: Congratulations.
Bharathi K: Nope.
Sunny Savita: I can hear you, but your voice is very low.
Bharathi K: below.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Vikas, Vikas Burma, please go ahead with the doubt.
Vikas Verma: Nope.
Vikas Verma: Hello? Am I audible listening?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Vikas, you're audible.
Vikas Verma: Okay, so my question is regarding the input layer. So, in the input layer, we started with 5 plus 3 metrics, and in the middle layer, we got 3 plus 5.
Vikas Verma: So this transition from 5 plus 3 to 3 plus 5, that is something which I didn't get.
Sunny Savita: It is not a transition, basically. It is just a matrix operations. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Matrice operation basically depends on that neuron size.
Vikas Verma: Okay, so in the import.
Sunny Savita: Have you gone through with the prerequisite?
Vikas Verma: Yeah. So, in the input layer, we started with one document, and it was 5 of 3 metrics, right?
Sunny Savita: See, see, see, let me, let me explain you that.
Sunny Savita: Let's say we have this.
Sunny Savita: 5 input neuron.
Sunny Savita: 5 input neuron means what?
Sunny Savita: 5-dimension vector will be passed as an input. Simple, right?
Vikas Verma: Blake.
Sunny Savita: In the hidden layer, we have 3 neurons.
Vikas Verma: Mmm.
Sunny Savita: Okay, what is the meaning of it?
Sunny Savita: So this… this vector will be processed through this neuron.
Vikas Verma: Yes.
Sunny Savita: This vector will be processed from this neuron.
Vikas Verma: Oak.
Sunny Savita: Actually, we are augmenting the information. Now, this vector will be processed from this neuron.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is this… what is the weight… sorry, what is the size of this matrix, the weight matrix over here?
Sunny Savita: I crossed 3 now, right?
Vikas Verma: Nope.
Sunny Savita: KSE OGA5 plus 3. Tell me.
Sunny Savita: See?
Sunny Savita: W.
Sunny Savita: 121W122W123.
Sunny Savita: W221, W222, W223.
Vikas Verma: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay? W321, W322, W323.
Vikas Verma: Generally 4 to 5 months.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my metrics.
Sunny Savita: Right? I will make a beijunga, my vector be Beijunga, k mira input vector.
Sunny Savita: multiplication karange.
Sunny Savita: is vector car.
Vikas Verma: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Toh ye mira, 5 cross 3.
Vikas Verma: Right, okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: Yup.
Vikas Verma: And one last question. Actually, I'm doing a purchase.
Sunny Savita: Love.
Vikas Verma: current organization, yeah. It's clear to me now. Thank you so much. Our last question, that I'm doing a project in my current organization using whiteboarding.
Vikas Verma: So that involves having a model and agentic framework.
Vikas Verma: So, if I… I have… I have actually a few doubts on that. So, by… when I can connect with you regarding that?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can ask, basically, the doubt session only, or else you can drop me a mail. So, between, like, Tuesday to Thursday, I just… I generally reply to a mail of, like, whatever I get a doubt, right, from the batches and all. So, just drop me over there, based on your concern and all. We can connect it, if required, okay?
Vikas Verma: Okay, so should I, send you a little bit of detail about the project that I'm doing, or do you obviously otherwise?
Vikas Verma: Oh, yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: Yes, you can write that.
Vikas Verma: Thank you so much, Sam. Next on. Yeah, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Vikas is done. Now, Adityhta, do you have any doubt? Please go ahead if you have any doubt.
Aditya K: Hello, hi sir. Yes, I have one doubt. So, we…
Aditya K: We specified the vector size as 150.
Aditya K: Right? So, which way the dimensions are 150, right? So…
Aditya K: So now we did not give the label, you know, like, this is, like, for example, when we're doing the machine learning, like, there is a, let's say, king, right? And gender, power, blah blah blah, like, we do that, but in this case, we don't… didn't give any labels, right? We just blindly specified vector styles, whatever you want.
Aditya K: How does it internally… You know, understand is, like, the correlation.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct.
Aditya K: Is there any way for us to see
Aditya K: You know, like, the dimensions and how it is similar, or… like, how does it even…
Aditya K: Do that, like…
Sunny Savita: No, sir, we will not get the name of those features, actually.
Sunny Savita: whatever we understood over the blackboard, in terms of king, queen, and all, right? It was just for the explanation, it was happening in the backend, it was happening in the, like, the model training, right? But actually, we won't get that feature name.
Sunny Savita: Like, how… what is this… what all these 150 features are there, okay, which is representing to this vector. It is a black box.
Aditya K: Okay, so basically it's nothing but, like, feature 1 to feature 150, and then,
Aditya K: Yeah, I mean, I'm trying to imagine how the model would be working internally. It is very easy to imagine.
Sunny Savita: The model is working internally, like I've shown you.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Aditya K: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Model is working internally, like I've shown you. Now, where the embedding is captured, I've shown you that also… that also. But yeah, that… that is one… that is the thing which is required over here to understand.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, what is vector? Vector, basically, is representing a number.
Sunny Savita: And the number is nothing, it's a value of those features. The feature, basically, we cannot get, because this model is not being designed in that way, okay? So, we will not, like, we will not ever get what would be this feature, actually. So, yeah.
Sunny Savita: That's it.
Aditya K: Okay, but is, like, it understands features based… like, it doesn't know, like, gender, or it doesn't know power, anything like that, right? It just knows feature 1, feature 2, and then it tries to derive meaning out of it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, not only always this gender and all, right? This feature could be anything, but we don't know what.
Aditya K: I'm in the nature, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Aditya K: Is that right, right, right. Okay, thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now next out is Adita is done.
Sunny Savita: THR, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Admin, what's a doubt?
Sunny Savita: Ruchi… So, Shant.
Sunny Savita: Guys, once you're done with your call, please lower the hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, THR.
THR: Listen to… Bala, yeah. So, Bala here, actually. I have one doubt,
THR: I got a good understanding on, you know, what to work, actually, now. So…
THR: just know you showed us, you know, a practical demo of a custom model. So, in that, how… how model, like, we, like, when you want to… when you want to customize a model, first you define five steps, right? First, you need to convert the sentence into tokens, and tokens into embeddings, I mean, vectors.
THR: So, for that vector, we followed in our theoretical, one-hot encoding, actually, right? When you're explaining to us.
THR: But in the model, when you're selecting Genesis or whatever, so that time, which…
THR: embedding model, or which vector is considered, actually? It's a one-hot encoding is considered, bag-over is considered, or TF-IDF is considered.
THR: Oh, I'll…
Sunny Savita: It's a 1-0 encoded vector, sir. Means the entire data… means the entire token will be converted into the 1-0 encoded vector, and then it is feeding to the model, actually. Okay? The thing, basically, which I've shown you over the blackboard.
THR: So, can we customize that too, sir? Like, do we… can we go for, you know, can we…
Sunny Savita: You can write a code from scratch, there you can customize that.
Sunny Savita: Irrespective to this library, you can write your own code, your own logic, and you can do that, sir. This kind of customization we usually do inside the real-time solution, okay?
THR: Okay, like, there is no parameter saying that, one, one OHE is equal to 1, like, the, like, we have ASG, right?
THR: If, like, we have, we have, we can go customizing on… the…
THR: two things, like what you said just now, okay.
THR: And one more thing, sir. I have two questions, I have three questions on the plate, actually.
Sunny Savita: I'm.
THR: One more question is that,
THR: When we curk, like, in a middle layer, like, hidden layer,
THR: How we know how many need to consider, like, neurons to be considered?
THR: Sunny, sir.
Sunny Savita: In the, in the middle layer, sorry.
THR: In the middle… in the middle layer, you just showed us, you know, 3, actually.
Sunny Savita: Huh.
THR: how we know, like, how many, like, I can consider 10 neurons also, right?
THR: there are 100 neurons also. Is it correct, sir, like, or my understanding, or…
THR: We should consult with 3.
Sunny Savita: No, no, as I told you, it is a hyperparameter, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
THR: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: So what is the meaning of the hyperparameter? Means, we cannot…
Sunny Savita: Okay, can you hear me? Am I audible right?
THR: Yeah, yeah, it's necessary.
Sunny Savita: So, what I'm saying, see, hyperparameter means we cannot decide a value. We'll have to experiment with a different, different value, actually. Okay?
THR: But… okay, sir. So, Sunny, sir, one more, actually. Why you're trying to take only one-hearted encoding, sir? Like, why can't you take, you know, bag of words in your example, and why can't you take EFID.
Sunny Savita: Recently.
THR: underneath.
Sunny Savita: We can take, sir, we can take, sir, but whatever have been defined inside the research paper, I explain you according to that.
THR: Oh.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, see, we have to feed the data to the model. So, either I can take 10 coding, I can take back of words, TF, anything I can take, sir.
Sunny Savita: That level of customization is possible.
Sunny Savita: If you're working in a real time on any project, if you're not getting a good accuracy, if you want it to your own superior model, right, if you wanted to impress your client or your, like, business and all with a very good accuracy of your generative AI or AI-related work, you can do that level of customization into your model. Got it?
THR: Yeah, because TF-IDF is the best one also, like you said, you concluded that TF IDF is the best one, regarding…
THR: What, 3?
Sunny Savita: You can basically do that level of customization, okay?
THR: Okay, sir. And sorry, sir, like, I will take one… two more minutes, actually.
THR: On the, yeah. So, whatever we discussed, so this is completely… it's a determining the embedding of a…
THR: what, right?
THR: So, it is not prediction, because we are not predicting the next word when we queue complete, like, we are given the con… we are given, we are following the, context, like, of…
THR: The model name, yeah.
THR: Like, we are following the, what is the name, sir? Like, I just forgot.
THR: Two things, and also, like…
THR: Okay, so my question is that, so, like, whatever we are today teaching, actually, you are… we are not predicting what, actually, because there is no…
THR: methodology, there is no method, or there is no functions to in the model, correct? We… we cannot predict a what. We can only.
Sunny Savita: No, no, sir, see.
THR: embedding part.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, what is our end goal?
THR: embeddings.
Sunny Savita: Embedding, na, right?
Sunny Savita: We… our end goal to generate our embedding. So, we have trained our model.
Sunny Savita: Right? We have trained the model in a natural way only.
Sunny Savita: By predicting that, by doing that supervised learning and all. But whenever we are giving any word, we are just getting that intermediate output of the model. That is an embedding. That's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So by giving the word, are we going to predict something? Are we going to predict any feature? No, we are not doing that. We are just going to get the embedding from the model. Okay?
THR: Yeah, yeah, so there's a misunderstanding. So, like, you know, we are trying to think, okay, if you pass, follow AI, so suddenly will be automatically predicted.
THR: In the, like, what we are doing in LLM, right?
Sunny Savita: In training, it will be happen, but in prediction, during the inferencing, we will just get an embedding, okay?
THR: Okay, so, like, what, like, just now, we farmers is not able to find. So, can I consider it, say, out of… I mean, like, not farmer, like, if I consider my name Bala, so Bala is not in the trend data set.
Sunny Savita: And I got…
THR: this is out of vocal pari, like, out of vocal.
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, yes, you can consider that, correct.
THR: I'll…
Sunny Savita: Yes.
THR: Thank you, sir, yeah.
Sushanta Saha: Hello, Sunny, sir?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sushanta, please go ahead.
Sushanta Saha: Yeah. Sir, I have a question, like, the way right now you're teaching, like, when you go in actual, generative AI and identity-related, topics, so there you will be, you know, explain us something on end-to-end project basis, or,
Sunny Savita: I'm just…
Sushanta Saha: Simply the model which you are right now building.
Sunny Savita: So we'll do the end-to-end project now, once we'll come to that part, that topic, right?
Sunny Savita: So, for the end-to-end project, we'll have to understand the rack technology, we'll have to understand about the agentic flow and all the other concepts, like MCP Godres and all, then only we can build the full-fledged AI-based application, okay?
Sunny Savita: So that will do later on, after completing our certain modules, okay?
Sushanta Saha: Yeah, and roughly how many end-to-end projects, we can expect, like, constant?
Sunny Savita: I think I mentioned 3 projects in the, like, syllabus. Okay. So, those projects we'll do in the live class, okay?
Sushanta Saha: Joseph.
Sushanta Saha: Yeah, thanks.
admin: Good evening, sir, I'm Poonachandallah.
admin: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: No, no, I'm coming, okay? Just give me 2 minutes, coming with my water bottle, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, again, we can start. Yes, please go ahead.
admin: Yes, so today you have given one assignment, right? To add some more… for custom model, to add some more data and change hyperparameter values, epoch size and vector size, right? Let's say I have added some data and changed hyperparameter values, like epoch size is 100 and vector size is 100.
admin: And I have trained that model, that is one case. And second case, I have changed, again, these hyperparameter values, and I have trained that, again, that model, custom model. So, out of these two, trained models, do we have any parameter or metric? How do we know which trained model is having best, weights?
admin: This is the question.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you're asking which model is going to be generated? Good embedding, right?
admin: Yeah, yeah, good M, correct, correct.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, just a second. Let me give you some benchmark place, or…
Sunny Savita: Benchmark value, how you can evaluate that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so, see, what you can do now…
Sunny Savita: I've shown you 3 things.
Sunny Savita: The first, basically, similarity check, most similar word.
admin: Okay.
Sunny Savita: The second, basically, word similar score, okay? And the third one, basically, this odd one out, right? It doesn't match.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and there is one more thing, analogy testing.
Sunny Savita: Where you can check the most similar word, and you can give the, negative word over there, right? Something like that. Just check out over there. So, based on this 3 to 4 parameter, you can check out the, like, the… the… whether the best vector is being generated or not. So, if it is directly impacting to this result, then you can say, my model is good one.
Sunny Savita: And another one, otherwise you can say, my model is not a good one, because to evaluate the Word2Bag, right, directly, or to evaluate the Word2Bag, it is a tricky part, actually. We cannot directly evaluate that. We don't have such benchmark metrics and all, like we have for the sentence embedding model, right?
Sunny Savita: as I've shown you this MTEB, which I will, show in the, next class, okay, next to next class. So for Word2Bec, basically, you can utilize the same thing which I've shown you. Got it?
admin: Okay, thank you. Sir, I have one, one last question. Just now, you have explaining this, how, means, like, training will happen not sequentially, it will happen parallelly. A neural network, architecture will take care of.
Sunny Savita: means.
admin: Right? That's what you said for SIBO.
admin: If we come to… we have just seen in the class for Skip Gram, one of the examples is sunny is the context, and it is… it has to predict, like, follow, fur, and AI, right?
admin: In this case also, this, updating of weights will happen parallelly or in sequentially, sir, in skipgrom.
Sunny Savita: Even, see, even I mentioned this thing in the notes also, if you will go and check.
Sunny Savita: So, just read out the… read out this slide.
Sunny Savita: See, read this one, what I return.
admin: Keep ground generated.
Sunny Savita: Actually, Escape Ground generate multiple training pairs.
admin: Right? Okay.
Sunny Savita: And can be viewed as performing separate forward pass.
Sunny Savita: Means, inside the architecture, we are able to see this is a separate forward pass, this one, we are separate calculating a loss, and this is a separate one, right? Means we have two over here. Getting my point?
admin: Okay, yeah, yeah, I agree.
Sunny Savita: Now, see.
Sunny Savita: Performing a separate forward pass for each context word. However, in practice, these operations are vectorized and compute in parallel using the batch processing on GPU.
Sunny Savita: Despite parallelization, skip gram remains lower than SIBO because it produces a larger number of training samples, increased over all competition. So, see, I already mentioned this thing.
Sunny Savita: Means, we have whatever advanced library we have here, we can make this, operation basically the vectorized computational… the vectorized operation in parallel, okay, using this library.
admin: Okay, okay. Because this is the main, main difference between, Skip Grum and, Sib Grum.
Sunny Savita: how the, basically, the training is happening. So there, we are passing the context, we are training, we are predicting one word. Here, we are passing one word, and we are predicting the, the entire context related to, then, one word, okay?
admin: Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next out is Sandeep, if you are there, please.
Sandeep Saboo: Yeah, yeah, thank you.
Sandeep Saboo: So, sorry, first of all, sorry, I actually missed some portion in between due to some network issue, and I'm just repeating myself, just, pardon me if I'm just asking a silly question. So, CBO and Skipraum both belong to the neural network category, right?
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sandeep Saboo: So…
Sandeep Saboo: what belongs to the transformer category, then? I mean, today, did we see the later part, that you were saying, like, it was…
Sunny Savita: Long, long, long.
Sandeep Saboo: Rajo.
Sunny Savita: We haven't seen the transformer. This boat technique, basically, is being applied over the neural network only.
Sandeep Saboo: Okay, okay, alright.
Sandeep Saboo: And, another thing is, basically, this… increasing the epoch does not guarantee the better results, right? Because it has to go through the number of epochs, that is, number of
Sandeep Saboo: Cycles, and then it will basically try to identify where to adjust the… adjust the weight and bring about the…
Sunny Savita: No, actually, see, actually in the deep learning and generative AI, this epoch size matters.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if we are increasing the epoch size, means the training would be a little better, and we will get a better result.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So if you will train any model, if you will learn the deep learning, artificial neural network, right? If you are going to train any model for 50 epoch, but if you will increase the epoch from 50 to maybe 70 to 80, like, a little bit more, then you will see, yes, the accuracy is being changed over there.
Sunny Savita: I'm not saying, like, you're going to be… if you're going to be in, like, hard day, 200, 500, then, some magic will happen, no. But yeah, optimistic value increment, then, yeah, it might impact in the accuracy, okay?
Sandeep Saboo: So, there is no certain way to predict, like, how many epochs is generally required, so what I was…
Sunny Savita: Well,
Sandeep Saboo: when we don't know something, ki kitne cycles lane wah hai, right?
Sunny Savita: dynamic hai. Matlab, we don't know about it.
Sunny Savita: Right? That's Pandra salut job research model bane habi ni ase train ke hai model.
Sunny Savita: agarap surus yu tak ml padhoge deal padhoge aapko semagai.
Sunny Savita: Actually.
Sunny Savita: i PyTorch seh.
Sandeep Saboo: I'll be texting.
Sunny Savita: dunia hai, actually, AI ke duniya.
Sunny Savita: Joki asearchal palli, joking predictive modeling kelati hai. That is exist over there, right? Agara waha se chijoku samjhenge, aapko pata chale ki…
Sunny Savita: EHH, Matlab, it's… it's a very dynamic one.
Sunny Savita: model job train karte thee toh, it's a hyperparameter. Git search parte the uskele, random search parte thee, hyperparameter karte thee. Toh va se actually sari chija start uti hain.
Sunny Savita: Okay. How may say contact karte hain. Ki, should we learn AI, should we learn ML and DL before that? Aapne harjaga su nao hai koshna.
Sunny Savita: Kailo kati nahi Parnai. Nahi Parnai for the application perspective. Parna hai to understand the fundamental perspective. Asa. Take care.
Sunny Savita: agar aapko insurance mein deep dive karna haustek model banaga train karna hai, thora deep learning ko explore karwab, at least, jagu.
Sandeep Saboo: Yeah, yeah, I'm going through, actually. So, certainly I'll get more insight into this, parallel equivalent.
Sandeep Saboo: Just… 30 epochs, weight trainings, Descent, right?
Sandeep Saboo: epox, when it takes a U-shape on a chart, right, and then…
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Sandeep Saboo: at the bottom, when it is basically the minimum loss levels, it identifies, right? So, we will have to monitor that, or it will let us know by itself. So…
Sandeep Saboo: woke or Shantamar, actually.
Sandeep Saboo: Can we…
Sunny Savita: You can plot a chart, you can plot the overfitting, underfitting chart, the accuracy chart, and all everything. Based on that, you can identify, actually, okay?
Sandeep Saboo: Okay.
Sandeep Saboo: actually, come bigger, increase bigger.
Sandeep Saboo: Cool.
Sandeep Saboo: Increase kya toh, value actually is other deviate over here. So, agar mein epocha size, increase karonga.
Sandeep Saboo: To muchgo proper value therea, ya, or deviated value therea, so it'.
Sunny Savita: most similar mein check kar round.
Sunny Savita: Meh, just a similarity check kar round, between two words. Bhaya.
Sunny Savita: to throw the result better, okay? Kuchak result, kuch result for bhikala tara, to mah kya kurunha.
Sunny Savita: check kar ruma, isa.
Sandeep Saboo: Okay.
Sandeep Saboo: All right, yeah, thank you.
Sunny Savita: broke.
Sunny Savita: Your next stop is, anyone is there?
Ruchi S: I'm there.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Venka, please go ahead.
venkata g: Yeah, so.
venkata g: Anyway, thanks for sharing the detailed explanation of all about SIBO and Skipground and all this. So, I hope you have done several projects as part of your company, I like that. Have you implemented any kind of use case regarding these two scenarios?
Sunny Savita: Which use case you're talking about?
venkata g: Especially SIBO and, Skip Grom.
venkata g: by using these techniques, have you implemented any? Because, just, I would like to… because…
Sunny Savita: Using this technique, basically, we have done several downstream tasks, right? Like text classification and all.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
venkata g: Okay, so, so, right now, these techniques are, using as part of the industry.
venkata g: are, I mean, advanced, like, terms.
Sunny Savita: We are using the SOTA models, no? This, model, actually.
venkata g: Yeah, that's what I would like to, I mean, just,
venkata g: still, people are using these techniques, or just for the basis, I mean, to get the more knowledge on the…
Sunny Savita: See, at couple of places… at couple of places, it's still being used. Whoever is working from the… is starting, right? Whoever is, like, working from scratch.
Sunny Savita: Right? If he's creating any model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if it's still using this, embedding at one… inside one… at one patch, okay, in any of the project, at those places, this technique is being used. But majority part is, like, being taken over care by these LLMs only, okay, the SOTA model, transformer-based model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
venkata g: Yeah, gotcha. Yeah, thanks.
Sunny Savita: No.
Utkarsh Pagare: Sunny, can I go ahead, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: Just a second. I think one lady was the Ruchi.
Ruchi S: New York.
Sunny Savita: doubt. Yes, please go ahead with the doubt.
Ruchi S: Okay, so I have few doubts. So the first one is when you said that, like, for…
Ruchi S: One second. So, for the specific documents of the window size,
Ruchi S: like you said, that it has to be used for, lower documents, like, lesser number of documents. The data requirements for skipgram and CBO. So, for skipgram, the data requirements are more, and for CBO, it is less.
Ruchi S: So I just wanted to ask, say, if I only have 50 documents with me, and I'm, performing a use case, like, I'm working on a use case, so is it, like, is it on the number of documents that we go on? Like, okay, these many documents are there, so we choose SEBA or Skipgram.
Ruchi S: Or is it more around how we are splitting the document, or how we are, you know, creating the window size, and if we are creating a bigger window size, then, you know, we are, like.
Sunny Savita: No, no, see.
Ruchi S: based on…
Sunny Savita: Actually, what was my meaning? The meaning was SIBO mein, right inside the SIBO.
Sunny Savita: If you have less data, then yeah, the model might be trained, okay? It might give you the, like, fast and the stable behavior.
Sunny Savita: But if we're talking about the skip gram, and if you're training with that less data, so maybe model might not give you very accurate answer, right? So, what the researcher felt in the research paper also, they have mentioned.
Sunny Savita: If you're going to be trained, right, your neural network with the skip-gram technique, then you would be required the more data. Now, what is the meaning of that more data?
Sunny Savita: Right? What is the meaning of the more data? So, let's say we have a 50 document. So, what is the size of each document?
Sunny Savita: If I'm saying document means it's a sentence, not that document, PDF, or PPT URL, something like that, right? So let's say we have a 50 document.
Sunny Savita: Right? 50 document means what? 50 sentences. And in each sentences, if we have 5 to 10 words, so how many total words would be there? 300 to 500 words. Okay?
Ruchi S: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: or maybe 1000 words. So here, I can easily use the SIBO.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. But let's say if we have a 50 document, and in every document, we have 1000 words.
Sunny Savita: So, how many total words are there? Let's say 50,000 words.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, here, basically, with that 50,000 words, right, for the bigger data, we can use the escape gram.
Sunny Savita: Understood.
Ruchi S: Okay.
Ruchi S: Yes.
Sunny Savita: Let's take one more animal.
Ruchi S: There's no set limit, right? It's based on the experimentation part.
Sunny Savita: Based on an experiment, basically. Correct. There is no hard limit anywhere.
Ruchi S: Okay. One more thing, like, how do we calculate the loss? Say, now we had,
Ruchi S: like, the practical that we did, say, now we know that the model is not, like, not up to what we really want. So if you want to see any losses or any metric that we can see that, you know, how accurate it is, how do we see that?
Sunny Savita: See, loss… loss, you're asking, I think, two perspectives. The first, basically, is called the training loss, okay?
Ruchi S: Perfect.
Sunny Savita: Training loss means what? If we are training a neural network model while the training, if we are going to be calculated loss, yes, that we can do.
Sunny Savita: So, for the regression, we have other metrics as mean squared error, MA, mean absolute error.
Ruchi S: Okay, so these works, MA and MSME.
Sunny Savita: Huh, correct. So those are the… those for the regression. If we're talking about the classification, so binary cross entropy, cross entropy, right? So those are the loss functions, those are the matrices, the loss matrices, okay? So based on that, basically, we can check out the loss of the model, based on that metrics only. Got it?
Ruchi S: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Ruchi S: And this WV, that you used in the, the code that I see. So, this basically is, you know, the address of the, word, right, that we are trying to find, like.
Sunny Savita: Not address of the word, actually, it is just a parameter. WB means what? Word vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Ruchi S: Yeah, okay, yeah.
Sunny Savita: That's it.
Ruchi S: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Just a parameter, which is defined inside this GenSim library, maybe, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay, okay.
Ruchi S: And, within this training, like, line, the first is basically the text, the next is what is the end line.
Ruchi S: So we… do we always have to give this end line, like, where does the, like, our document, or our story, or entire text ends? Or without that also, it can work?
Sunny Savita: Endline means what, sorry?
Ruchi S: Like, the total underscore examples equals to custommodel.corpus underscore account, so basically it is, like, calculating the end line, right? Like, what is the number of the lines present in the document?
Sunny Savita: No, that is being, done by some parameter, actually. If you will check out the sentence tokenizer, so by default, it is considering the full stop.
Sunny Savita: Based on that, it is going to be divided into the sentences.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Ruchi S: What is this?
Sunny Savita: You can mention any parameter over there, like question mark, spaces, or full stop, or this new line and all, anything.
Ruchi S: Okay, so what is this one doing, then? Like, the one in, like, the 29th statement, where it's training, the model is getting trained.train.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, I'm sharing the screen. Show me where you are asking, what you are asking, okay?
Sunny Savita: Oh, which one?
Ruchi S: Yeah, can you just drag down?
Ruchi S: No, no, no, just more down.
Ruchi S: So… Yamoda, yes, don't…
Ruchi S: Yeah, so this training line, the last one that's visible, custom underscore model dot train, so the story, I understand that it's the text that we are providing. What is this total underscore example? Basically, it is calculating the last line, right?
Sunny Savita: Total underscore example, basically, it is a corpus, corpus count. How many examples is there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Corpus count basically means the sentences, the number of sentences, see?
Sunny Savita: Okay. It is 44.
Ruchi S: How we go…
Sunny Savita: we got this 44. I've shown you over there, right? I think you missed that part.
Ruchi S: ye…
Sunny Savita: See?
Ruchi S: Yeah, actually. Plenty of those.
Sunny Savita: story is 44, actually. So it is asking to us, okay, you are passing a story, can you tell us inside the story how many sentences are there? That's it.
Sunny Savita: This is what it is asking to us.
Sunny Savita: Means, ye puchera hai, aapne story dehydia.
Sunny Savita: kita na corpus counter, sentences ka, toh buzz wake or parameter additionally lirah apneisseh. That's it. Okay?
Ruchi S: Okay. And just one last note. So, I… it's very new for me. I joined yesterday, and I don't know about the assignments. So the link that you have given, I just saw there's a drop-down in that, and there is one assignment. So, it's a previous one, right? Not this one.
Sunny Savita: Previous assignment is there over the GitHub. So this is the… if you will check out with the previous class, previous to previous class, there I given that assignment.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, this assignment, 01, okay? So, after this workbook, basically, I didn't given any official assignment, I just asked to test something, okay, with this,
Sunny Savita: Some more data and all.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I will give you the official assignment like this, maybe in the next class. Let me teach a little more, then I'll give you some bigger assignment, okay?
Ruchi S: But you said, like, the one that we have to try for more eight box, and the accuracy…
Sunny Savita: So, ma'am, that is what I'm saying, right? Just an extension, not a full-filage assignment, like the first one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if you will check the first assignment, it was the full-fledged assignment, from starting to end. Here, I already did some practical for you, now you have to add on something on top of it. Got it?
Ruchi S: Okay, so when we do it, like, we have to upload it on the GitHub and fill that form, right?
Sunny Savita: You can submit that assignment through this one, Google Form, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay, because us Google form ki andarek dropdown hai.
Sunny Savita: Now, scan the drop-down here? See, that's what I'm saying. Now, this assignment is not a full flesh assignment. I will not mention over there. See, what you can do, under the assignment first only, you can submit that, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay.
Ruchi S: Nope.
Ruchi S: Yeah, that's all.
Sunny Savita: No.
Utkarsh Pagare: Nick, can I go ahead? No?
Sunny Savita: Yautkash, please go ahead.
Utkarsh Pagare: Yeah, thanks, thanks, Sunny. Sunny, para question. Joe, one out on boarding hair.
Utkarsh Pagare: custom models of apne Banaya.
Utkarsh Pagare: Usme1 encoding, basically, us corpus ke basis to 1H encoding decide, and that is getting input, that is, basically, input to our custom model.
Utkarsh Pagare: Or, who is internal, which, the Anseem kahi ha, just joking one hot encoding convertK, and then giving it as input.
Sunny Savita: No, I didn't understand. Can you.
Utkarsh Pagare: Yeah, sure. Aapne, bhi custom model banayaka.
Utkarsh Pagare: Corpus, I mean, vocab tha, vocab 300 words ka, suppose. 300 to 400 words ka suppose. So, mehera jo one jata hai word.
Sunny Savita: Huh.
Utkarsh Pagare: move one hot encoding kitarajata, right?
Sunny Savita: Totally, totally.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, USA, one hot encoding the convert honey, what was the basis? The basis was the vocab, of 300 words, or the Jansim Kandar kuch have already, by default, which is converting it.
Sunny Savita: miso vocabulary ke basis bantay.
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh, okay.
Sunny Savita: vocabulary.
Sunny Savita: Toh, kyata vocabulary ka sais ko chayatana 244 gheita.
Utkarsh Pagare: Perfect.
Sunny Savita: 257, yeah.
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh, yeah.
Utkarsh Pagare: It's business for Andrea, right?
Utkarsh Pagare: Got it. Second question, Nejab explained here, Seagram versus, skip, SIBO versus Skip gram.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, CBO mein DO input jaran, and kebrah mein Ekh input seh output band rahan, and, CBO mein hora hai ki do input se ek output band rah.
Utkarsh Pagare: hidden layer, and hidden layer basically aapki embedding hot here. Now, ek jagame bolta mo k mira do input, jo hujata hai, ek embedding banta hai, which is directly related to one output, wo me embedding hoi.
Utkarsh Pagare: I'm saying that hidden layer may be embedding one layer that is directly related to input. Eggdagar embedding is related to output, egg embedding is related to input.
Sunny Savita: outputs are related,
Utkarsh Pagare: explain kyata.
Sunny Savita: Excircuit may open content.
Sunny Savita: Ha, ye ha… wala.
Utkarsh Pagare: He escaped on that.
Sunny Savita: si boga.
Utkarsh Pagare: outputs related, right? Jo, i beach mein embedding money hai, this hidden layer,
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Utkarsh Pagare: This is basically sunny residency hardware.
Utkarsh Pagare: Which is representing the.
Sunny Savita: Actually ri mein job dala jaiga. Tab actually me jo amidig mani woke jo amidig maniji wo sani ko represent kari ki, ya ape di khaya mane.
Sunny Savita: No doubt, yehi meera embedding hoga, huh sahi bhate, jekin ye srif training wala parte, to aap asamat bullh ye sana represent kare, asa nahi.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, dude.
Sunny Savita: train hojayenge, aur jammar prediction karunga. Madhap jam mein apni inferencing karunga, us time pe jab pey embedding negative woe actually mein embedding hogi sani ki.
Utkarsh Pagare: aapne hai?
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh, okay. What is your name?
Sunny Savita: doh phases out, hain.
Utkarsh Pagare: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Ab e ko ta training ka phase, aur e ko ta prediction ka phase, matla inferencing ka phase. Toh, paled model ko train kar rahin, na? Au hamne model ko train kar dia, tohi ko, model training ka matlab kya hotai, model training ka matlab utai, ke best weights nikal row.
Sunny Savita: Best to best with Sune Cheye.
Sunny Savita: embedding, yay.
Sunny Savita: Oh, yeah, Mari, final embedding over here, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay? To meh ya, ye swale architecture mein aapko ye bhata araw kito essaya mari training horiza, input jara hai, 5 cross 3, 5 crozi ya mari beats hai, abi y aapaya processing hogi, iskajo output nikol kaya, ayaga bohembed hogi. Okay?
Sunny Savita: This is sort of training hai, actually, meh.
Sunny Savita: model ka. Au embedding such meek ka baige, mada, actually mein hoagi training, isi hidden output, hidi, isi hidden layer ki, but wohogi prediction ke time prediction karin gi, asa.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Toh kisi model ko phase auth, eko tha training, eko tha prediction. Got it?
Utkarsh Pagare: Perfect.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, cool question, Sunny. So… It will always give me same embedding, right? Change ago embedding.
Sunny Savita: Huh, correct. Right.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, okay, third question is,
Utkarsh Pagare: Suppose aapne equals mein. Usme word to vet joh hai.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, as an input, garage, why do I have a diagram that is happening? Pdf now.
Sunny Savita: So…
Utkarsh Pagare: Suppose agar may accompany mein new language pe aapna transformer agar suppose initial iba se kar rang.
Utkarsh Pagare: custom model banana padega.
Sunny Savita: How? Right.
Sunny Savita: Correct. For a Kutka transform model train kersakya.
Utkarsh Pagare: Oh, good.
Sunny Savita: calculation kelein number chai yogi.
Sunny Savita: input mein am ka dirah hai.
Sunny Savita: one or two encoded vector, there I am. At a number there I am, no?
Sunny Savita: Sahi, transformer kya hai, woh bhito ek mathematical calculation yena, mathematical model yena.
Sunny Savita: Usme bhi humko calculation ke liya number deny badangin,
Sunny Savita: words ka kese multipli kar saktein.
Sunny Savita: number kay multiply karna pada. Mathematics ke liye, right? To wahi pura bo hai was concept, ki matlah surum hai word to back model chipkadi harun hai, ki bache increases.
Sunny Savita: Or se convert, okay, Jobhi vector 512 dimension ke vector hunge woh, or also go known as self-attention se process kartia, bus. Asa.
Utkarsh Pagare: Sunny, last question is for the initial aspect. So…
Utkarsh Pagare: GPT ha, suppose, last year the train was Adobe.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Utkarsh Pagare: Us ma word2 vac ko bhi, latest agar ma koj banara, to mere ChatGPT members. I mean, updated Rena chimer word2VAC as well.
Sunny Savita: Ha, embedding model be trained karthing use case, mein. Mother jo, embedding generate karke dera, actually, mein.
Sunny Savita: For embedding Model B, train Karenge as a.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay. Got it.
Utkarsh Pagare: Thanks, thanks, honey. I think, there are so good.
Sunny Savita: Yep.
Utkarsh Pagare: Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you, Utkash. Now, next question. Anyone having any doubt? Otherwise, I'll close the session?
navin220149@gmail.com: Yes, sir. I gave one out, sir.
Sunny Savita: Yes, please go ahead.
navin220149@gmail.com: Actually, I have, initial setup issue. We are not able to… Download requirement.txt.
Sunny Savita: Okay, share the screen, I'll check.
navin220149@gmail.com: That's currently available, sir?
Sunny Savita: No, it is not.
navin220149@gmail.com: browser?
Sunny Savita: Yes, it is visible.
navin220149@gmail.com: Yes, at last time, I have…
Sunny Savita: Should you put it?
navin220149@gmail.com: These are secured this.
navin220149@gmail.com: intimately, this usually indicates the problem with the package or the built environment.
Sunny Savita: Sir, I think you are using a wrong version of the Python, that's why.
Sunny Savita: Give me the access of your system.
navin220149@gmail.com: Yes, sir.
Sunny Savita: I told you to create a environment in a… with the 3.11. Maybe you are… you have created with 3.12 that, right?
navin220149@gmail.com: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think…
Sunny Savita: Why, why you created? Because I told you for this, applica- for this practical, please create it with a 3.11.
Sunny Savita: Because GenSim is not supporting 3.11, for that, you will have to install something additionally, that is Visual C++ tool.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is a heavy installation, that's why I haven't shown you that.
Sunny Savita: I went through with this 3.11, okay.
Sunny Savita: So, first of all, delete this .vnv and all everything, and even delete this environment also. Create a new environment with 3.11, and re-download this requirement.txt, it will work.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
navin220149@gmail.com: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Retire all the previous environment, because
Sunny Savita: That is not required right now, so… now you can delete this Python version also.
Sunny Savita: You can delete the other environment. So, delete everything from here.
Sunny Savita: See, this file also will not be required. And do the setup in whatever way I told you. So, I mentioned all the steps in the Class 2 Notion PDF notes. Just go through with those notes.
Sunny Savita: Basically, how to create a virtual environment with those commands.
Sunny Savita: And created.
navin220149@gmail.com: Good morning.
navin220149@gmail.com: Okay. Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: Here, do it, please.
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, let me know in the next session, okay?
navin220149@gmail.com: Period. Yes, you're safe.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, any more doubt?
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine guys, so I think we are good to go for today.
Sunny Savita: Now we can conclude the session.
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, you can directly write to me over the mail. Otherwise.
Sunny Savita: You can write in a community chat, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, thank you guys, thank you, bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you, everyone.
Sunny Savita: Good night. Bye.